G R A D U A T E  R E C O R D  E X A M I N A T I O N S ?
Biology Test
Practice Book
This practice book contains
 one actual, full-length GRE? Biology Test
 test-taking strategies
Become familiar with
 test structure and content
 test instructions and answering procedures
Compare your practice test results with the performance of those who 
took the test at a GRE administration.
This book is provided FREE with test registration by the Graduate Record Examinations Board.
www.ets.org/gre
Copyright ? 2008 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved.
ETS, the ETS logos, LISTENING. LEARNING. LEADING., GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATIONS,
and GRE are registered trademarks of Educational Testing Service (ETS) in the United States of America
and other countries throughout the world.
?
Note to Test Takers: Keep this practice book until you receive your score report. 
This book contains important information about scoring.

BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
3
Purpose of the GRE
Subject Tests
The GRE Subject Tests are designed to help gradu-
ate school admission committees and fellowship 
sponsors assess the qualifi cations of applicants in 
specifi c fi elds of study. The tests also provide you 
with an assessment of your own qualifi cations.
Scores on the tests are intended to indicate 
knowledge of the subject matter emphasized in 
many undergraduate programs as preparation for 
graduate study. Because past achievement is usually 
a good indicator of future performance, the scores 
are helpful in predicting success in graduate study. 
Because the tests are standardized, the test scores 
permit comparison of students from different 
institutions with different undergraduate programs. 
For some Subject Tests, subscores are provided in 
addition to the total score; these subscores indicate 
the strengths and weaknesses of your preparation, 
and they may help you plan future studies.
The GRE Board recommends that scores on the 
Subject Tests be considered in conjunction with 
other relevant information about applicants. Because
numerous factors infl uence success in graduate 
school, reliance on a single measure to predict 
success is not advisable. Other indicators of compe-
tence typically include undergraduate transcripts 
showing courses taken and grades earned, letters of 
recommendation, and GRE General Test scores. 
For information about the appropriate use of GRE 
scores, see the GRE Guide to the Use of Scores at 
ets.org/gre/stupubs.
Development of the
Subject Tests
Each new edition of a Subject Test is developed by 
a committee of examiners composed of professors in 
the subject who are on undergraduate and graduate 
faculties in different types of institutions and in 
different regions of the United States and Canada. 
In selecting members for each committee, the GRE 
Program seeks the advice of appropriate professional 
associations in the subject.
The content and scope of each test are specifi ed 
and reviewed periodically by the committee of 
examiners. Test questions are written by committee 
members and by other university faculty members 
who are subject-matter specialists. All questions 
proposed for the test are reviewed and revised by 
the committee and subject-matter specialists at 
ETS. The tests are assembled in accordance with 
the content specifi cations developed by the com-
mittee to ensure adequate coverage of the various 
aspects of the fi eld and, at the same time, to prevent 
overemphasis on any single topic. The entire test 
is then reviewed and approved by the committee. 
Table of Contents
Purpose of the GRE Subject Tests ................... 3
Development of the Subject Tests ................... 3
Content of the Biology Test ............................ 4
Preparing for a Subject Test ............................. 8
Test-Taking Strategies ...................................... 8
What Your Scores Mean .................................. 9
Practice Biology Test ....................................... 13
Scoring Your Subject Test ............................... 65
Evaluating Your Performance ......................... 68
Answer Sheet .................................................. 69
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
4
Subject-matter and measurement specialists 
on the ETS staff assist the committee, providing 
information and advice about methods of test con-
struction and helping to prepare the questions and 
assemble the test. In addition, each test question is 
reviewed to eliminate language, symbols, or content 
considered potentially offensive, inappropriate for 
major subgroups of the test-taking population, or 
likely to perpetuate any negative attitude that may be 
conveyed to these subgroups.
Because of the diversity of undergraduate cur-
ricula, it is not possible for a single test to cover all 
the material you may have studied. The examiners, 
therefore, select questions that test the basic knowl-
edge and skills most important for successful graduate 
study in the particular fi eld. The committee keeps the 
test up-to-date by regularly developing new editions 
and revising existing editions. In this way, the test 
content remains current. In addition, curriculum 
surveys are conducted periodically to ensure that 
the content of a test refl ects what is currently being 
taught in the undergraduate curriculum.
After a new edition of a Subject Test is fi rst 
administered, examinees? responses to each test 
question are analyzed in a variety of ways to deter-
mine whether each question functioned as expected. 
These analyses may reveal that a question is ambigu-
ous, requires knowledge beyond the scope of the test, 
or is inappropriate for the total group or a particular 
subgroup of examinees taking the test. Such questions 
are not used in computing scores.
Following this analysis, the new test edition is 
equated to an existing test edition. In the equating 
process, statistical methods are used to assess the 
diffi culty of the new test. Then scores are adjusted so 
that examinees who took a more diffi cult edition of 
the test are not penalized, and examinees who took 
an easier edition of the test do not have an advantage. 
Variations in the number of questions in the differ-
ent editions of the test are also taken into account 
in this process.
Scores on the Subject Tests are reported as three-
digit scaled scores with the third digit always zero. 
The maximum possible range for all Subject Test 
total scores is from 200 to 990. The actual range 
of scores for a particular Subject Test, however, 
may be smaller. For Subject Tests that report sub-
scores, the maximum possible range is 20 to 99; 
however, the actual range of subscores for any 
test or test edition may be smaller than 20 to 99. 
Subject Test score interpretive information is 
provided in Interpreting Your GRE Scores, which 
you will receive with your GRE score report. This 
publication is also available at ets.org/gre/stupubs.
Content of the Biology Test
The GRE Biology examination is designed to evaluate 
the following abilities and background of the student.
 Knowledge of basic vocabulary and facts in 
several biological fi elds at the equivalent of 
an upper-level course.
 Conceptual understanding of ideas, relation-
ships, and processes 
 Understanding of basic scientifi c research, 
procedures, and tools
 Capacity to read, evaluate, and draw conclusions 
from unfamiliar laboratory and fi eld studies
 Understanding of the connections among 
biological fi elds and between biological fi elds 
and allied sciences
The test contains about 200 fi ve-choice questions, 
a number of which are grouped in sets toward the 
end of the test and are based on descriptions of 
laboratory and fi eld situations, diagrams, or experi-
mental results.
To cover the broad fi eld of the biological sciences, 
the subject matter on which the students are tested 
is organized into three major areas: cellular and 
molecular biology; organismal biology; and ecology 
and evolution. Approximately equal weight is given 
to each of these three areas. In addition to the total 
score, a subscore in each of these subareas is reported. 
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
5
The approximate distribution of questions by 
content category is shown below. However, subject 
areas indicated by Arabic numerals may not contain 
equal numbers of questions.
I. Cellular and Molecular Biology (33-34%)
Fundamentals of cellular biology, genetics, and 
molecular biology are addressed. Major topics in 
cellular structure and function include metabolic 
pathways and their regulation, membrane dynamics 
and cell surfaces, organelles, cytoskeleton, and cell 
cycle. Major areas in genetics and molecular biol-
ogy include chromatin and chromosomal structure, 
genomic organization and maintenance, and the 
regulation of gene expression. The cellular basis of 
immunity and the mechanisms of antigen-antibody 
interactions are included. Distinctions between pro-
karyotic and eukaryotic cells are considered where 
appropriate. Attention is also given to experimental 
methodology.
A. Cellular Structure and Function (16-17%)
  1. Biological compounds 
    Macromolecular structure and bonding
    Abiotic origin of biological molecules
  2. Enzyme activity, receptor binding, and regulation
  3. Major metabolic pathways and regulation 
    Respiration, fermentation, and photosynthesis
    Synthesis and degradation of macromolecules
    Hormonal control and intracellular messengers
  4. Membrane dynamics and cell surfaces 
    Transport, endocytosis, and exocytosis
    Electrical potentials and transmitter 
 substances
    Mechanisms of cell recognition, cell 
 junctions, and plasmodesmata
    Cell wall and extracellular matrix
  5. Organelles: structure, function, synthesis, 
 and targeting 
    Nucleus, mitochondria, and plastids
    Endoplasmic reticulum and ribosomes
    Golgi apparatus and secretory vesicles
    Lysosomes, peroxisomes, and vacuoles
  6. Cytoskeleton, motility, and shape 
    Actin-based systems
    Microtubule-based systems
    Intermediate fi laments
    Bacterial fl agella and movement
  7. Cell cycle, growth, division, and regulation
 (including signal transduction) 
  8. Methods 
    Microscopy (e.g., electron, light, 
 fl uorescence)
    Separation (e.g., centrifugation, gel fi ltration,
 PAGE, Fluorescence activated cell 
 sorting (FACS))
    Immunological (e.g., Western Blotting, 
 immunohistochemistry, immunofl uor-
 escence)
B. Genetics and Molecular Biology (16-17%)
  1. Genetic foundations 
    Mendelian inheritance
    Pedigree analysis
    Prokaryotic genetics (transformation, 
 transduction, and conjugation)
    Genetic mapping
  2. Chromatin and chromosomes 
    Nucleosomes
    Karyotypes
    Chromosomal aberrations
    Polytene chromosomes
  3. Genome sequence organization
    Introns and exons
    Single-copy and repetitive DNA
    Transposable elements
  4. Genome maintenance
    DNA replication
    DNA mutation and repair
  5. Gene expression and regulation in 
 prokaryotes and eukaryotes: mechanisms 
    The operon
    Promoters and enhancers
    Transcription factors
    RNA and protein synthesis
    Processing and modifi cations of both 
 RNA and protein
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
6
  3. Support and movement
    Support systems (external, internal, 
and hydrostatic)
    Movement systems (fl agellar, ciliary, and 
muscular)
  4. Integration and control mechanisms 
    Nervous and endocrine systems
  5. Behavior (communication, orientation, 
 learning, and instinct) 
  6. Metabolic rates (temperature, body size, 
 and activity)
B. Animal Reproduction and Development (6%)
  1. Reproductive structures
  2. Meiosis, gametogenesis, and fertilization
  3. Early development (e.g., polarity, cleavage, 
 and gastrulation) 
  4. Developmental processes (e.g., induction, 
 determination, differentiation, morpho-
 genesis, and metamorphosis)
  5. External control mechanisms 
 (e.g., photoperiod)
C. Plant Structure, Function, and Organization, 
 with Emphasis on Flowering Plants (7%)
  1. Organs, tissue systems, and tissues 
  2. Water transport, including absorption 
 and transpiration 
  3. Phloem transport and storage
  4. Mineral nutrition
  5. Plant energetics (e.g., respiration and 
 photosynthesis)
D. Plant Reproduction, Growth, and 
 Development, with Emphasis on
 Flowering Plants (5%)
  1. Reproductive structures
  2. Meiosis and sporogenesis
  3. Gametogenesis and fertilization
  4. Embryogeny and seed development
  5. Meristems, growth, morphogenesis, and 
 differentiation
  6. Control mechanisms (e.g., hormones, 
 photoperiod, and tropisms)
  6. Gene expression and regulation: effects 
    Control of normal development
    Cancer and oncogenes
  7. Immunobiology 
    Cellular basis of immunity
    Antibody diversity and synthesis
    Antigen-antibody interactions
  8. Bacteriophages, animal viruses, and 
 plant viruses 
    Viral genomes, replication, and assembly
    Virus - host cell interactions
  9. Recombinant DNA methodology 
    Restriction endonucleases
    Blotting and hybridization
    Restriction fragment length polymorphisms
    DNA cloning, sequencing, and analysis
    Polymerase chain reaction
II. Organismal Biology (33-34%)
The structure, physiology, behavior, and development 
of plants and animals are addressed. Topics covered 
include nutrient procurement and processing, gas 
exchange, internal transport, regulation of fl uids, 
control mechanisms and effectors, and reproduction 
in autotrophic and heterotrophic organisms. Exam-
ples of developmental phenomena range from fertil-
ization through differentiation and morphogenesis.  
Perceptions and responses to environmental stimuli 
are examined as they pertain to both plants and 
animals. Major distinguishing characteristics and 
phylogenetic relationships of selected groups from 
the various kingdoms are also covered.
A. Animal Structure, Function, 
 and Organization (10%)
  1. Exchange with environment 
    Nutrient, salt, and water exchange
    Gas exchange
    Energy
  2. Internal transport and exchange 
 (circulatory, gastrovascular, and 
 digestive systems)
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
7
E. Diversity of Life (6%)
  1. Archaea 
    Morphology, physiology, and identifi cation 
  2. Bacteria (including cyanobacteria) 
    Morphology, physiology, pathology, 
 and identifi cation
  3. Protista 
    Protozoa, other heterotrophic Protista 
 (slime molds and Oomycota), and 
 Autotrophic Protista
    Major distinguishing characteristics
    Phylogenetic relationships
    Importance (e.g. eutrophication, disease)
  4. Fungi  
    Distinctive features of major phyla 
 (vegetative, asexual and sexual 
 reproduction)
    Generalized life cycles
    Importance (e.g., decomposition, 
 biodegradation, antibiotics, and 
 pathogenicity)
    Lichens
  5. Animalia with emphasis on major phyla  
    Major distinguishing characteristics
    Phylogenetic relationships
  6. Plantae with emphasis on major phyla 
    Alternation of generations
    Major distinguishing characteristics
    Phylogenetic relationships
III. Ecology and Evolution (33-34%)
This section deals with the interactions of organ-
isms and their environment, emphasizing biological 
principles at levels above the individual. Ecologi-
cal and evolutionary topics are given equal weight. 
Ecological questions range from physiological 
adaptations to the functioning of ecosystems. Al-
though principles are emphasized, some questions 
may consider applications to current environmental 
problems. Questions in evolution range from its 
genetic foundations through evolutionary processes 
to their consequences. Evolution is considered at 
the molecular, individual, population, and higher 
levels. Principles of ecology, genetics, and evolution 
are interrelated in many questions. Some questions 
may require quantitative skills, including the inter-
pretation of simple mathematical models.
A. Ecology (16-17%)
  1. Environment/organism interaction 
    Biogeographic patterns 
    Physiological ecology 
    Temporal patterns (e.g., seasonal fl uctuations) 
  2. Behavioral ecology 
    Habitat selection
    Mating systems
    Social systems
    Resource acquisition
  3. Population Structure and Function 
    Population dynamics/regulation 
    Demography and life history strategies 
  4. Communities 
    Direct and indirect interspecifi c interactions 
    Community structure and diversity 
    Change and succession 
  5. Ecosystems 
    Productivity and energy fl ow 
    Chemical cycling 
B. Evolution (16-17%)
  1. Genetic variability 
    Origins (mutations, linkage, recombination, 
 and chromosomal alterations) 
    Levels (e.g., polymorphism and heritability) 
    Spatial patterns (e.g., clines and ecotypes) 
    Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium 
  2. Evolutionary processes 
    Gene fl ow and genetic drift 
    Natural selection and its dynamics 
    Levels of selection (e.g., individual 
 and group) 
    Trade-offs and genetic correlations
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
8
  3. Evolutionary consequences 
    Fitness and adaptation 
    Speciation 
    Systematics and phylogeny 
    Convergence, divergence, and extinction 
    Coevolution
  4. History of life 
    Origin of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells
    Fossil record
    Paleontology and paleoecology
Preparing for a
Subject Test
GRE Subject Test questions are designed to measure 
skills and knowledge gained over a long period of 
time. Although you might increase your scores to 
some extent through preparation a few weeks or 
months before you take the test, last minute cramming 
is unlikely to be of further help. The following infor-
mation may be helpful.
 A general review of your college courses is 
probably the best preparation for the test. 
However, the test covers a broad range of 
subject matter, and no one is expected to be 
familiar with the content of every question.
 Use this practice book to become familiar 
with the types of questions in the GRE 
Biology Test, paying special attention to the 
directions. If you thoroughly understand the 
directions before you take the test, you will 
have more time during the test to focus on 
the questions themselves.
Test-Taking Strategies
The questions in the practice test in this book 
illustrate the types of multiple-choice questions in 
the test. When you take the actual test, you will 
mark your answers on a separate machine-scorable 
answer sheet. Total testing time is two hours and 
fi fty minutes; there are no separately timed sections. 
Following are some general test-taking strategies 
you may want to consider.
 Read the test directions carefully, and work 
as rapidly as you can without being careless. 
For each question, choose the best answer 
from the available options.
 All questions are of equal value; do not waste 
time pondering individual questions you fi nd 
extremely diffi cult or unfamiliar.
 You may want to work through the test quite 
rapidly, fi rst answering only the questions 
about which you feel confi dent, then going 
back and answering questions that require 
more thought, and concluding with the most 
diffi cult questions if there is time.
 If you decide to change an answer, make sure 
you completely erase it and fi ll in the oval 
corresponding to your desired answer.
 Questions for which you mark no answer 
or more than one answer are not counted 
in scoring.
 Your score will be determined by subtracting 
one-fourth the number of incorrect answers 
from the number of correct answers. If you 
have some knowledge of a question and 
are able to rule out one or more of the 
answer choices as incorrect, your chances 
of selecting the correct answer are improved, 
and answering such questions will likely 
improve your score. It is unlikely that pure 
guessing will raise your score; it may lower 
your score.
 Record all answers on your answer sheet.
Answers recorded in your test book will 
not be counted. 
 Do not wait until the last fi ve minutes of 
a testing session to record answers on your 
answer sheet.
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
9
What Your Scores Mean 
Your raw score, that is?the number of questions 
you answered correctly minus one-fourth of the 
number you answered incorrectly?is converted to 
the scaled score that is reported. This conversion 
ensures that a scaled score reported for any edition 
of a Subject Test is comparable to the same scaled 
score earned on any other edition of the same test. 
Thus, equal scaled scores on a particular Subject 
Test indicate essentially equal levels of performance 
regardless of the test edition taken. Test scores 
should be compared only with other scores on the 
same Subject Test. (For example, a 680 on the 
Computer Science Test is not equivalent to a 680 
on the Mathematics Test.)
Before taking the test, you may fi nd it useful 
to know approximately what raw scores would be 
required to obtain a certain scaled score. Several 
factors infl uence the conversion of your raw score 
to your scaled score, such as the diffi culty of the test 
edition and the number of test questions included 
in the computation of your raw score. Based on 
recent editions of the Biology Test, the following 
table gives the range of raw scores associated with 
selected scaled scores for three different test editions. 
(Note that when the number of scored questions 
for a given test is greater than the range of possible 
scaled scores, it is likely that two or more raw scores 
will convert to the same scaled score.) The three 
test editions in the table that follows were selected 
to refl ect varying degrees of diffi culty. Examinees 
should note that future test editions may be some-
what more or less diffi cult than those test editions 
illustrated in the table.
Range of Raw Scores* Needed 
to Earn Selected Scaled Score 
on Three Biology Test Editions 
That Differ in Diffi culty
Scaled Score
Raw Scores
Form A Form B Form C
800 128-130 124-125 120-121
700 101-103 95-97 92-94
600 74-76 67-69 64-66
500 47-49 39-41 37-39
Number of Questions Used to Compute Raw Score
199 198 200
*Raw Score = Number of correct answers minus one-fourth the 
number of incorrect answers, rounded to the nearest integer.
For a particular test edition, there are many ways 
to earn the same raw score.  For example, on the 
edition listed above as ?Form A,? a raw score of 
101 through 103 would earn a scaled score of 700. 
Below are a few of the possible ways in which a 
scaled score of 700 could be earned on the edition:
Examples of Ways to Earn
 a Scaled Score of 700 
on the Edition Labeled as ?Form A?
Raw 
Score
Questions
Answered
Correctly
Questions
Answered
Incorrectly
Questions
Not 
Answered
Number of 
Questions
Used to 
Compute
Raw Score
101 101 0 98 199
101 111 39 49 199
101 120 78 1 199
103 103 0 96 199
103 112 37 50 199
103 122 75 2 199
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
10
Practice Test
To become familiar with how the administration will be conducted at the test center, fi rst 
remove the answer sheet (pages 69 and 70). Then go to the back cover of the test book 
(page 64) and follow the instructions for completing the identifi cation areas of the answer 
sheet. When you are ready to begin the test, note the time and begin marking your answers 
on the answer sheet.


13
Copyright ? 1999, 2003, 2006 by Educational Testing Service. All rights reserved.
GRE, GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATIONS, ETS, EDUCATIONAL TESTING 
SERVICE and the ETS logos are registered trademarks of Educational Testing Service.
FORM  GR0624
THIS TEST BOOK MUST NOT BE TAKEN FROM THE ROOM.
GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATIONS?
Do not break the seal
until you are told to do so.
 The contents of this test are confi dential.
 Disclosure or reproduction of any portion
 of it is prohibited.
BIOLOGY TEST
24
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NO TEST MATERIAL ON THIS PAGE 
 
15
 
 
BIOLOGY TEST 
Time?170 minutes 
200 Questions 
 
Directions:  Each of the questions or incomplete statements below is followed by five suggested answers or 
completions. Select the one that is best in each case and then completely fill in the corresponding space on the 
answer sheet. 
 
 1. In the formation of the secondary structure  
of a protein, which of the following are most 
responsible for holding an alpha-helix region  
in its helical form? 
(A) Ionic bonds 
(B) Hydrogen bonds 
(C) Disulfide bonds 
(D) Hydrophobic interactions 
(E) van der Waals interactions 
 
 2. Why do erythrocytes swell and burst when placed 
in water? 
(A) Since water concentration is higher outside 
the cell, water moves inward by passive 
diffusion. 
(B) Since hemoglobin concentration is higher 
inside the cell, hemoglobin moves outward 
by exocytosis. 
(C) Since potassium ions are more concentrated 
inside the cells, potassium ions move 
outward by osmosis. 
(D) Erythrocytes pump water inward by active 
transport to balance osmotic gradients. 
(E) Water is a universal solvent and simply 
dissolves the erythrocyte membranes. 
 
 3. The addition of -amanitin, a known inhibitor  
of DNA-dependent mRNA synthesis, to growing 
cells will most likely cause protein synthesis to  
(A) stop immediately 
(B) stop as mRNA becomes depleted 
(C) stop as thymidine becomes depleted 
(D) stop as the ribosomes become inactivated 
(E) be unaffected 
 
 4. An infectious agent that appears to have no 
nucleic acid is a  
(A) bacterium 
(B) bacteriophage 
(C) viroid 
(D) virus 
(E) prion 
 
 5. Separation of molecules according to size can be 
achieved by which of the following? 
(A) Gel-filtration chromatography 
(B) Ion-exchange chromatography 
(C) Affinity chromatography 
(D) Isoelectric focusing 
(E) X-ray diffraction 
 
 6. Which of the following is true of the movement of 
cilia and flagella in eukaryotes? 
(A) It produces ATP. 
(B) It is the result of a rotating motion. 
(C) It is identical to that of bacterial flagella. 
(D) It is driven by a proton gradient. 
(E) It results from one microtubule pair sliding 
along a neighboring microtubule pair. 
 
 7. Which of the following is true of the polymerase 
chain reaction? 
(A) It enables a small amount of DNA to be 
amplified. 
(B) It involves the addition of a poly-A sequence 
to mRNA. 
(C) It cuts DNA into numerous small fragments 
for analysis. 
(D) It separates DNA fragments according to 
size. 
(E) It requires RNA in order to proceed. 
 
 8. Which of the following pathways is most likely 
taken by newly synthesized histones? 
(A) Rough endoplasmic reticulum ? Golgi 
complex ? secretory vesicle 
(B) Rough endoplasmic reticulum ? Golgi 
complex ? nucleus 
(C) Rough endoplasmic reticulum ? smooth 
endoplasmic reticulum ? nucleus 
(D) Cytoplasm ? nucleus 
(E) Cytoplasm ? rough endoplasmic reticulum 
? Golgi complex ? nucleus 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
( )
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
16
 
 
 9. How many different types of gametes could be 
produced by an individual with the arbitrary 
genotype of AAbbCCDdEe ? 
(A) Two 
(B) Four 
(C) Six 
(D) Eight 
(E) More than eight 
 
10. During cytokinesis in an animal cell, a constricting 
ring pinches the dividing cell into the two daughter 
cells. This contractile ring is formed by which of 
the following structures? 
(A) Centrioles 
(B) Microtubules 
(C) Microfilaments 
(D) Z discs 
(E) The spindle apparatus 
 
11. If an organic acid accumulates in a plant cell  
in sufficient quantities to affect the cell?s pH 
significantly, then the acid will probably be  
stored in the 
(A) cytosol 
(B) vacuole 
(C) nucleus 
(D) mitochondria 
(E) chloroplasts 
 
12. Which of the following information can be gained 
from determining the primary structure of an 
enzymatically active protein? 
(A) The amino acids in the active site can be 
positively identified. 
(B) The molecular weight of the protein can be 
accurately established. 
(C) The temperature at which thermal inactivation 
will occur can be accurately established. 
(D) An estimate of Km can be calculated. 
(E) An estimate of Vmax can be calculated. 
 
13. Which of the following is correct concerning the 
Km of an enzyme? 
(A) It depends on the dissociation constant for the 
product of the reaction. 
(B) It defines the Vmax of the enzyme-catalyzed 
reaction. 
(C) It is a measure of the number of substrate 
molecules converted to product in a specific 
unit of time. 
(D) It is the substrate concentration at which the 
velocity of the reaction is equal to 1/2 Vmax. 
(E) It is measured in units of moles per minute. 
 
14. Which of the following types of enzymes are 
usually subjected to direct feedback inhibition  
by an intracellular metabolite? 
(A) Enzymes catalyzing the last step in a 
catabolic pathway 
(B) Enzymes catalyzing the last step in a 
biosynthetic pathway 
(C) Enzymes catalyzing the first step in a 
biosynthetic pathway 
(D) Enzymes localized in the extracellular matrix 
(E) Enzymes localized in lysosomes 
 
15. Which of the following cellular structures  
serve similar functions in plants and animals, 
respectively? 
 Plants Animals
 
(A) Tight junctions Gap junctions 
(B) Desmosomes Gap junctions 
(C) Plasmodesmata Gap junctions 
(D) Plasmodesmata Desmosomes 
(E) Plasmodesmata Tight junctions 
 
16. Increased calcium influx across the membranes of 
presynaptic neurons has which of the following 
effects on synaptic transmission? 
(A) Increased release of neurotransmitter 
(B) Increase in voltage-dependent potassium 
efflux 
(C) Decreased release of neurotransmitter 
(D) Decrease in voltage-dependent potassium 
efflux 
(E) Closure of the acetylcholine-gated channel 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
17
 
 
 
17. The tubulin heterodimer depicted above is located 
within a protofilament of an intact microtubule. 
To which site is the  portion of its neighboring 
heterodimer (within the same protofilament) 
attached? 
(A) L 
(B) M 
(C) N 
(D) O 
(E) P 
 
 
 
18. During meiosis, homologous chromosomes  
pair up along their lengths. The most plausible 
explanation for the karyotype structure shown 
above is that 
(A) portions of non-homologous chromosomes 
have been translocated 
(B) one of the two homologous chromosomes  
has suffered a deletion 
(C) one of the two homologous chromosomes  
has undergone an inversion 
(D) the homologous chromosomes have each 
suffered a gene duplication 
(E) one of a pair of homologous chromosomes 
has been lost via nondisjunction 
 
19. Which of the following best explains how the 
activity of an enzyme is regulated by an allosteric 
inhibitor? 
(A) Direct competition between the binding of 
the inhibitor and the binding of a substrate 
to the active site 
(B) Induction of a conformational change in the 
enzyme by the inhibitor, which affects 
enzyme activity 
(C) Irreversible binding of the inhibitor to the 
enzyme, which affects enzyme activity 
(D) Inhibition of the transcription of the gene 
encoding the enzyme by the inhibitor 
(E) Denaturation of the protein induced by 
binding of the inhibitor 
 
20. A species of plant is discovered in which 
individual plants produce either white or purple 
flowers. True breeding plants that have short 
stems with white flowers are crossed with true 
breeding plants that have tall stems and purple 
flowers. The resulting offspring all have tall stems 
with purple flowers. When one of these tall, 
purple-flowered offspring is crossed with a short, 
white-flowered plant, plants with the following 
characteristics were obtained in equal proportions. 
White flowers on tall stems 
Purple flowers on tall stems 
White flowers on short stems 
Purple flowers on short stems
 
  Given the information above, which of the 
following is most likely true? 
(A) The white-flower allele and the tall-stem 
allele occur at the same locus. 
(B) The genes for flower color and stem length 
are closely linked. 
(C) Extensive crossing-over between the  
purple-flower allele and the white-flower 
allele has occurred. 
(D) The genes for flower color and stem length 
are not linked. 
(E) Independent assortment does not occur in  
this species of plant. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
18
 
 
21. An X-linked recessive gene produces red-green 
color blindness in humans. A woman with normal 
color vision whose father was color-blind marries 
a color-blind man. What is the probability that 
their son will be color-blind? 
(A) 0 
(B) 1/4 
(C) 1/2 
(D) 3/4 
(E) 1/1 
 
22. Which of the following is NOT a correct statement 
about the process of meiosis? 
(A) Meiosis I separates chromosomes; meiosis II 
separates chromatids. 
(B) Synapsis and crossing-over occur during 
meiosis I. 
(C) Kinetochores are responsible for aligning 
chromatids during meiosis I. 
(D) Karyokinesis occurs before cytokinesis. 
(E) Segregation of unlinked alleles occurs during 
meiosis. 
 
23. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the site of all of 
the following EXCEPT 
(A) drug detoxification by means of mixed-
function oxidases 
(B) synthesis of proteins that are secreted from 
the cell 
(C) N-linked glycosylation of newly formed 
polypeptides 
(D) Ca2+ storage in muscle tissues 
(E) hydrolytic activities carried out by acid 
hydrolases 
 
24. Exons of a gene are defined as 
(A) the untranslated regions of the corresponding 
mRNA 
(B) regions in the corresponding mRNA that are 
involved in initiation of transcription 
(C) regions that are not transcribed by RNA 
polymerase 
(D) regions that are excised from the corre-
sponding protein after it is synthesized 
(E) regions that remain in the corresponding 
mRNA after splicing 
 
25. In nerves, vesicles can move the length of an  
axon at a rate that far exceeds that which would 
be predicted for simple diffusion. Which of the 
following models best explains vesicular 
movement in these cells? 
(A) Depolymerization of actin microfilaments 
attached to vesicles pulls the vesicles 
toward the site of depolymerization. 
(B) Vesicles are propelled by fluid movement 
generated by changes in osmotic potential 
within the cells. 
(C) Vesicles are moved by alternate contraction 
and relaxation of actin-myosin ?muscle? 
complexes. 
(D) Vesicles, by virtue of their net negative 
charge, are attracted to positively charged 
regions of the cell. 
(E) Vesicles are attached to the protein kinesin, 
which slides along microtubules by an ATP-
dependent process. 
 
26. Additions or deletions of bases in the nucleotide 
sequence of a structural gene most often result in 
(A) an altered sequence of amino acids in the 
protein that the gene encodes 
(B) insertion of a new intron into the coding 
sequence of the gene 
(C) decreased histone binding 
(D) decreased excision repair 
(E) increased levels of mRNA production 
 
27. Radioactive cytosine was added to an actively 
growing culture of E. coli bacteria. Which of the 
following would be the result if a cell replicated 
once in the presence of this radioactive base? 
(A) One of the daughter cells, but not the other, 
would have radioactive DNA. 
(B) Neither of the two daughter cells would  
have radioactive DNA. 
(C) Both daughter cells would have  
radioactive DNA. 
(D) Radioactive cytosine would pair with 
nonradioactive adenine during DNA 
replication. 
(E) DNA replication would not occur, because 
two radioactive bases are required for 
proper pairing. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
19
 
 
28. Which of the following is an anticodon? 
(A) The part of a DNA molecule that codes for 
chain termination 
(B) A 3-nucleotide sequence of an mRNA 
molecule 
(C) A specific part of a tRNA molecule 
(D) A nucleotide triplet of an rRNA molecule 
(E) The portion of a ribosomal subunit that 
interacts with aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase 
 
29. Drosophila lines with large, sometimes multiple, 
inversions in one or more chromosomes are often 
used in maintaining laboratory stocks because  
of which of the following reasons? 
(A) Inversions maximize the process of 
chromosome pairing within and near  
the inversion. 
(B) Inversions in the male inhibit fertilization  
of non-inversion-containing females. 
(C) Inversion heterozygotes produce a greater 
number of viable offspring. 
(D) Inversion heterozygotes usually yield 
inviable gametes or zygotes when  
crossing-over occurs within the inversion. 
(E) Inversion heterozygotes produce a greater 
number of recombinant offspring. 
 
30. Chimeric mice can be generated by injecting a 
cell from an early embryo into a blastocyst of 
another genotype. The fact that the single injected 
cell can contribute to many tissues of the chimeric 
mouse has led to the conclusion that cells of the 
early embryo are 
(A) differentiated 
(B) motile 
(C) transformed 
(D) transduced 
(E) totipotent 
 
31. In Drosophila, regions of polytene chromosomes 
show puffs at different times in development. 
Studies with labeled compounds have indicated 
that the localization to the puffs of tritiated 
(A) thymidine indicates that DNA is being 
synthesized 
(B) thymidine indicates that RNA is being 
synthesized 
(C) leucine indicates that new proteins are being 
synthesized 
(D) uridine indicates that DNA is being 
synthesized 
(E) uridine indicates that RNA is being 
synthesized 
 
32. In Drosophila, a homeotic mutation would be 
the most likely explanation for which of the 
following? 
(A) A decrease in the number of parasegments 
(B) A leg developing where an antenna would 
normally be located 
(C) Forked and dense body bristles instead of 
straight and sparse ones 
(D) A significantly shorter life span 
(E) An increase in wing length 
 
33. Humoral immunity is characterized by all of the 
following EXCEPT 
(A) a memory response 
(B) antigen-antibody interaction 
(C) the synthesis of immunoglobulins 
(D) the production of plasma cells 
(E) the production of cytotoxic T cells 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
20
 
 
34. The immune system in mammals can rapidly 
respond to foreign molecules because of the 
enormous variety of B lymphocytes, each with 
different cell-surface antibodies that can bind 
specific antigens. Which of the following best 
explains the principal mechanism by which the 
diversity of lymphocytes arises? 
(A) During the development of B lymphocytes, 
rearrangements of the DNA coding for the 
various domains of the antibody molecule 
occur. 
(B) During the development of B lymphocytes, 
different introns are spliced out of antibody 
mRNA?s. 
(C) mRNA?s for all 1015 types of antibodies are 
produced by each B lymphocyte; however, 
only one type of mRNA gets translated. 
(D) All 1015 types of antibodies are produced by 
each B lymphocyte; specific proteases 
degrade all but one type. 
(E) Different B lymphocytes carry different 
transcription activators, so that only one 
specific mRNA (and therefore, antibody) is 
produced by each lymphocyte. 
 
35. Hybridization between mature mRNA and DNA 
can identify introns in eukaryotic genes. When 
mature mRNA produced by the insulin gene is 
hybridized with denatured chromosomal DNA, 
which of the following will most likely be 
observed? 
(A) No hybridization would occur under any 
conditions. 
(B) Hybridization of mRNA would occur with 
random sections of chromosomal DNA. 
(C) Hybridization of mRNA with DNA would 
occur in a continuous stretch that is equal  
to the length of the mRNA. 
(D) Hybridization of mRNA with DNA would 
occur but with many single-stranded loops 
of DNA. 
(E) Hybridization of mRNA with DNA would 
occur but with many single-stranded loops 
of mRNA. 
 
36. In adult mammals, the primary site for the final 
stage of differentiation of T  lymphocytes is the 
(A) spleen 
(B) bone marrow 
(C) bursa of Fabricius 
(D) thymus 
(E) liver 
 
37. In the DNA sequence 5 CGA TCG GCT 3 ,  
which of the following is considered a transition-
type mutation? 
(A) 5  CGA CCG GCT 3  
(B) 5  CGA TGG CT 3  
(C) 5  CGA TCG CCT 3  
(D) 5  CGA TCG GCA 3  
(E) 5  CGA UCG GCU 3  
 
38. Artificially acquired passive immunity involves 
(A) vaccination with attenuated virus or bacteria 
(B) the transfer of antibodies, as from a mother to 
her fetus 
(C) the production of a cellular immune response 
or antibodies  
(D) antibody formation as a result of exposure to 
antigens in the environment 
(E) injection of preformed antibodies such as 
immunoglobulin 
 
39. Which of the following is true concerning animal 
retroviruses? 
(A) They must replicate during the S phase of  
the cell cycle. 
(B) They require an RNA-dependent DNA 
polymerase. 
(C) They are nonenveloped viruses. 
(D) The virions have double-stranded RNA 
genomes. 
(E) Replication of their genome occurs entirely 
within the host nucleus. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
21
 
 
40. In Escherichia coli, the synthesis of tryptophan  
is controlled by the tryptophan operon that is 
repressed in the presence of excessive tryptophan. 
When a mutant strain that has lost the regulatory 
gene of the tryptophan operon is placed in a 
medium that contains all nutrients the cells need 
to grow except tryptophan, which of the following 
will occur? 
(A) The cells will continue to grow even  
though excess tryptophan is synthesized. 
(B) The cells will grow until excessive 
tryptophan arrests the expression of the 
operon. 
(C) The cells will not grow until enough 
tryptophan has been synthesized to activate 
the corepressor. 
(D) The cells will never grow unless tryptophan 
is added to the medium. 
(E) The cells will not grow even when 
tryptophan is added to the medium. 
 
41. Which of the following is LEAST likely to cause 
a proto-oncogene to become an oncogene? 
(A) A gene is incorporated into a retroviral 
genome. 
(B) A gene is expressed at an inappropriate time. 
(C) A gene is moved close to an enhancer, 
causing excess product to be made. 
(D) A gene is truncated, yielding a protein with 
modified activity. 
(E) A gene is moved into centromeric 
heterochromatin, silencing its transcription. 
 
42. The physiological role of restriction 
endonucleases is to 
(A) allow the in vitro construction of recombinant 
DNA molecules 
(B) methylate host DNA 
(C) remove RNA primer during DNA synthesis 
(D) allow mapping of gene location 
(E) cleave foreign DNA molecules that enter  
the cell 
 
 
 Type I:  slow, oxidative, red 
 Type II A:  fast, oxidative, red 
 Type II B:  fast, glycolytic, white 
 
43. The muscle cells listed above will most likely 
fatigue in what order, from first to last? 
 First Last
 
(A) Type I Type II A Type II B 
(B) Type I Type II B Type II A 
(C) Type II A Type I Type II B 
(D) Type II B Type II A Type I 
(E) All three types will fatigue at the same rate. 
 
44. Members of which of the following terrestrial 
groups have the most water-permeable body 
covering? 
(A) Insecta 
(B) Reptilia 
(C) Aves 
(D) Arachnida 
(E) Amphibia 
 
45. Which of the following is found in mammals 
during male gamete formation? 
(A) Two successive centrosome duplications 
during meiosis 
(B) Accumulation of yolk during gamete 
formation 
(C) Generation of a polar body during meiosis I 
(D) Formation of four functional gametes from a 
primary germ cell 
(E) Temporary arrest of meiosis at the  
metaphase I stage 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
22
 
 
46. During the evolution of life on Earth, the photo-
synthetic organisms initially responsible for 
raising atmospheric oxygen concentrations from 
less than 1 percent to about 20 percent were 
(A) cyanobacteria 
(B) archaea 
(C) diatoms 
(D) flowering plants 
(E) mosses 
 
47. Which of the following statements about circadian 
rhythms is correct? 
(A) They are expressed during cell division only. 
(B) They occur only in mammals. 
(C) They are not found in humans. 
(D) They are generated exogenously. 
(E) They have a periodicity of about 24 hours. 
 
48. The receptive surface for pollen on an angiosperm 
flower is the  
(A) anther 
(B) corolla 
(C) ovary 
(D) style 
(E) stigma 
 
49. Immediately after fertilization in animals, the first 
structural and biochemical changes in the egg are 
initiated by 
(A) new gene transcription 
(B) the release of Ca2+ from internal reservoirs 
(C) the initiation of DNA synthesis 
(D) a lowering of cytosolic pH 
(E) a sudden drop in ATP levels 
 
50. Chickadees were given an opportunity to store 
seeds in 72 possible storage sites consisting of 
holes drilled in small trees that had been placed  
in an aviary. Typically, the seeds were placed  
in only 4 or 5 storage sites. The chickadees were 
then removed from the aviary, the seeds removed 
from the storage sites, and each hole covered.  
A day later, the chickadees were returned to the 
aviary and they spent nearly 5 times as long 
pulling at the covers on storage sites than at the 
covers on sites where they had not stored food. 
This experiment indicates that chickadees 
(A) use auditory cues to find stored food 
(B) have a spatial memory that enables them  
to locate storage sites 
(C) have a propensity to inspect and pull at the 
covers wherever they are located 
(D) cannot find a storage site if they cannot see 
the food in it 
(E) rely on the visual cues provided by the  
opening to a storage site to locate  
stored food 
 
51. Bird species X stores seeds in a large number of 
separate caches in the summer and then locates 
the caches in the winter. Compared with a bird 
species that does not store seeds, species X can 
be expected to have a proportionately larger 
(A) cerebellum 
(B) hippocampus 
(C) optic lobe 
(D) hypothalamus 
(E) medulla 
 
52. Functionally, Hensen?s node is to a chick embryo 
as the 
(A) animal pole is to a frog embryo 
(B) blastopore dorsal lip is to a frog embryo 
(C) ectoderm is to a bird embryo 
(D) vegetal pole is to a frog embryo 
(E) anterior pole cells are to a Drosophila 
embryo 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
23
 
 
 
53. The oxygen consumption of marine crabs acclimated to either 
10?C or 20?C was measured at environmental temperatures of 
5?C to 25?C to produce the following graph. 
 
  Which of the following can be correctly concluded from the 
information in the graph? 
(A) Acclimation temperature does not affect the rate of 
oxygen consumption. 
(B) Crabs have higher rates of oxygen consumption when 
measured at 10?C than when measured at 20?C. 
(C) Oxygen consumption is higher in the 10?C-acclimated 
crabs than in the 20?C-acclimated crabs at each test 
temperature. 
(D) Acclimation to a high temperature induces a high rate of 
oxygen consumption at all test temperatures. 
(E) This pattern of acclimation produces complete metabolic 
compensation. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
24
 
 
54. The outermost tissue of a tree trunk that is 6 feet 
in diameter would most likely be 
(A) epidermis 
(B) cork 
(C) cortex 
(D) phloem 
(E) xylem 
 
55. Which of the following is the tissue that is most 
important in plant survival during droughts and 
why? 
(A) Vascular tissue, because the phloem keeps 
the plant supplied with water 
(B) Vascular tissue, because the xylem can store 
considerable amounts of water 
(C) Ground tissue, because water can be stored in 
the sclerenchyma for use during droughts 
(D) Ground tissue, because the parenchymal 
tissue provides hormonal cues to stop water 
loss 
(E) Epidermal tissue, because it is covered with a 
waxy cuticle and includes drought-
responsive stomata 
 
 
 
 
56. Which of the following cells or tissues are 
characteristically found in the roots, but not  
the stems, of angiosperms? 
(A) Parenchyma and collenchyma 
(B) Epidermis and cork 
(C) Pericycle and endodermis 
(D) Vessel elements and tracheids 
(E) Sieve tube members and companion cells 
 
Stomatamm?2 on Leaves Species 
Upper Epidermis Lower Epidermis
 
Encelia farinosa 248 355 
Haworthia attenuata 15 25 
Bursera latiflora 0 272 
Scilla violaceae 3 35 
Agave deserti 40 32 
 
57. The data above were collected from plants growing in the 
desert of southwest Arizona. Which species probably under-
goes the most evaporative cooling in this environment? 
(A) Encelia farinosa 
(B) Haworthia attenuata 
(C) Bursera latiflora 
(D) Scilla violaceae 
(E) Agave deserti 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
25
 
 
58. A piece of prospective belly epidermis of a newt 
neurula-stage embryo is grafted to the prospective 
mouth region of a frog neurula, replacing the frog 
epidermal tissue at that spot. The grafted embryo 
continues to develop and forms a newt mouth and 
teeth at the position of the graft. This result is 
consistent with which of the following? 
(A) Newt tissue develops autonomously 
according to its original fate, despite its new 
location in the frog embryo. 
(B) Newt tissue dedifferentiates whenever it is 
grafted. 
(C) Tissues of the frog neurula induce the newt 
tissue to express frog-specific genes that it 
would not normally express. 
(D) The mouths and teeth of frogs and newts are 
the same in type. 
(E) The frog tissues of the neurula induce the 
newt tissue to form mouthparts. 
 
59. Some chemoautotrophic bacteria living around 
deep-sea vents obtain their energy by converting 
(A) alcohols to aldehydes 
(B) hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur 
(C) carbon dioxide and hydrogen to methane 
(D) iron oxides to iron  
(E) nitrogen to ammonia 
 
60. The ability of a desert rodent?s kidneys to form 
highly concentrated urine is largely attributable to  
(A) a high glomerular filtration rate 
(B) the production of a very salty ultrafiltrate in 
the glomerulus 
(C) the ability of cells lining the proximal 
convoluted tubule to absorb water 
(D) long loops of Henle that pass through tissues 
of increasing salt concentrations 
(E) distal convoluted tubules that are 
impermeable to water 
 
61. In a plant growing vigorously under normal 
conditions without water stress, in which tissue 
would you expect to find the lowest (most 
negative) water potential? 
(A) Root epidermal cell 
(B) Root cortical parenchyma 
(C) Root endodermis 
(D) Stem xylem 
(E) Leaf mesophyll parenchyma 
 
62. In organisms with closed circulatory systems, 
fluid leaves the blood of capillary networks at  
the arterial end and returns to blood at the venous 
end for which of the following reasons? 
(A) Osmotic pressure increases prior to 
dehydration. 
(B) Osmotic pressure difference dominates at the 
arterial end; hydrostatic pressure difference 
dominates at the venous end. 
(C) Hydrostatic pressure difference dominates at 
the arterial end; osmotic pressure difference 
dominates at the venous end. 
(D) Hydrostatic pressure drops during diastole. 
(E) Hydrostatic pressure difference dominates at 
both the arterial and the venous ends. 
 
63. Which of the following mineral nutrients is 
directly involved in light absorption during 
photosynthesis? 
(A) Zn2+
 
(B) Mn2+
 
(C) Cu2+
 
(D) Mg2+
 
(E) Ca2+ 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
26
 
 
64. Most of the dry mass of a plant is derived from 
(A) minerals from the soil 
(B) carbon from the soil 
(C) carbon from the atmosphere 
(D) oxygen from the atmosphere 
(E) oxygen from soil water 
 
65. Chlorophylls a and b are two pigments primarily 
responsible for the capture and processing of solar 
energy in the light reactions of photosynthesis. 
Which of the following best explains why having 
both chlorophyll a and b benefits a plant more 
than having one? 
(A) Chlorophylls a and b have slightly different 
absorption spectra; this expands the range of 
wavelengths of light that can be captured 
for photosynthesis. 
(B) Chlorophyll a is primarily involved in 
electron transfer; chlorophyll b is mainly 
involved in the capture of light energy. 
(C) Chlorophyll a captures all the solar energy; 
chlorophyll b serves to protect  
chlorophyll a from overexcitation. 
(D) Chlorophyll b captures all the solar energy; 
since chlorophyll a is a precursor to 
chlorophyll b, a pool of chlorophyll a must 
be maintained. 
(E) Chlorophyll a resides in the thylakoid 
membranes and captures light energy there; 
chlorophyll b is soluble in the chloroplast 
stroma and captures light energy there. 
 
66. The Calvin cycle, the ?dark reactions? or carbon 
fixation reactions of photosynthesis, cannot occur 
at night in a living plant. Which of the following 
best describes why this is true? 
(A) The stomata are incapable of opening at 
night, thus CO2 cannot enter the leaf. 
(B) The reactions of the Calvin cycle are depen-
dent on light reactions for high-energy 
compounds. 
(C) Several enzymes necessary for Calvin cycle 
activity have been degraded during the day 
and must be replaced. 
(D) Light is required to transport the water 
necessary for the cycle. 
(E) Cooler temperatures at night slow enzyme 
activity and rates of substrate diffusion. 
 
67. If the egg cell of a megagametophyte of a flow-
ering plant has a marker gene designated as X 
and the sperm cell of a compatible pollen grain 
has a marker gene designated as Y, which of the 
following represents the endosperm that will 
result from fertilization in most flowering plants? 
(A) XX 
(B) YY 
(C) XY 
(D) XXY 
(E) YYX 
 
68. Ca2+ is important in skeletal muscle contraction 
because it 
(A) activates the myosin ATPase by binding to it 
(B) binds to troponin to remove a constant 
inhibition of cross-bridge attachment 
(C) prevents the formation of bonds between the
 
myosin cross bridges and the actin filament 
(D) is required to detach the myosin head from 
the actin filament 
(E) causes muscle relaxation at intracellular 
concentrations of Ca2+ higher than 10?6M 
 
69. Which of the following structures present in the 
embryos of higher plants develops into the primary 
root of the seedling? 
(A) Epicotyl 
(B) Hypocotyl 
(C) Cotyledon 
(D) Radicle 
(E) Endosperm 
 
70. Which of the following statements about the 
motility of Paramecium is true? 
(A) Paramecium employs a pseudopod. 
(B) Paramecium has no structures for motility. 
(C) Paramecium uses a single flagellum. 
(D) Paramecium uses a pair of flagella. 
(E) Paramecium uses cilia. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
27
 
 
71. In the cellular slime molds, the aggregation of 
myxamoebas is initiated by 
(A) low light intensities 
(B) high pH 
(C) uptake of chloride ion 
(D) secretion of cyclic AMP 
(E) elevated temperature 
 
72. A unicellular eukaryote that contains chlorophyll a 
(but no chlorophyll b), that functions as one of 
the major photosynthetic autotrophs in open-ocean 
ecosystems, and that has cell walls that contain 
silica is a 
(A) red alga 
(B) green alga 
(C) dinoflagellate 
(D) euglenoid 
(E) diatom 
 
73. Dikaryotic hyphae are a kind of fungal tissue that 
(A) contain two chromosomes 
(B) form after plasmogamy and before 
karyogamy 
(C) are only a short stage of the life cycle of the 
Basidiomycota 
(D) are not found in the Ascomycota 
(E) are formed by the fusion of two nuclei 
 
74. Saprophytic fungi obtain their nutrition by 
(A) taking food into their gastrovascular cavity, 
and then digesting and absorbing it 
(B) making food by chemosynthesis 
(C) secreting digestive enzymes into the 
environment and then absorbing the 
digestive products 
(D) using their amoeboid cells in phagocytosis 
(E) forming a parasitic relationship with soil 
bacteria 
 
75. An animal with a coelom, jointed appendages, 
and metameric segmentation would be classified 
in the phylum 
(A) Mollusca 
(B) Cnidaria 
(C) Platyhelminthes 
(D) Arthropoda 
(E) Chordata 
 
76. Which of the following animal phyla is 
diploblastic, that is, exhibits only two embryonic 
germ layers? 
(A) Rotifera 
(B) Mollusca 
(C) Nematoda 
(D) Platyhelminthes 
(E) Cnidaria 
 
77. Which of the following describes members of 
both the Bryophyta and the Pteridophyta?  
(A) The absence of true roots  
(B) The absence of swimming sperm 
(C) The absence of meristematic growth 
(D) The presence of chlorophyll 
(E) The dominance of the haploid phase of the 
life cycle 
 
78. In sporophytes of some mosses, a ring of 
peristome teeth regulates 
(A) sperm release 
(B) spore dispersal 
(C) spore germination 
(D) asexual reproduction 
(E) rhizoid production 
 
79. Which of the following characterizes dicoty-
ledonous plants? 
(A) Their flowers always have superior ovaries. 
(B) Their seeds usually contain two embryos. 
(C) Their stems have scattered vascular bundles. 
(D) Their leaves usually have parallel veins. 
(E) Their flowers usually have parts in multiples 
of four or five. 
 
80. All of the following allow hermaphroditic animal 
species to avoid inbreeding EXCEPT 
(A) functioning as only one sex during mating 
(B) releasing eggs and sperm simultaneously 
(C) being protandrous 
(D) being protogynous 
(E) changing sex 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
28
 
 
81. All of the following occur during the cleavage 
stage of animal development EXCEPT 
(A) an increase in the nuclear-to-cytoplasmic 
ratio of the cells 
(B) an increase in the number of blastomeres 
(C) an increase in the mass of the embryo 
(D) an increase in the surface-to-volume ratio of 
the cells 
(E) rapid cell divisions  
 
82. Plants that utilize photosynthesis via the C4 
pathway differ from those that use the C3 pathway 
in that at higher temperatures the C4 plants  
(A) are less productive per unit area of leaf  
(B) are more productive per unit area of leaf 
(C) can tolerate lower light conditions better 
(D) carry on high levels of photorespiration 
(E) use much more water for transpiration per 
unit of photosynthesis 
 
83. A lateral root forms on the primary root of a 
typical herbaceous dicot by 
(A) continued growth of a root hair on an 
epidermal cell 
(B) lateral outgrowth of xylem 
(C) lateral outgrowth from the root apical 
meristem 
(D) activation of a lateral bud at a node on the 
surface of the root 
(E) activation of an area in the pericycle to form 
an apical meristem 
 
84. The leaves of grasses can continue to elongate 
following mowing or grazing due to actively 
growing tissue at the base of the leaf blades and 
sheaths called 
(A) apical meristems 
(B) lateral cambium 
(C) intercalary meristems 
(D) axillary buds 
(E) interfascicular parenchyma 
 
85. The amount of energy entering a food chain 
depends on the 
(A) direction of energy flow in the system 
(B) efficiency of energy recycling in the system 
(C) biomass of carnivores and their efficiency in 
locating and capturing animal prey 
(D) biomass of heterotrophs and their efficiency 
in transforming plant tissue into animal 
tissue 
(E) biomass of autotrophs and their efficiency in 
transforming solar energy into chemical 
energy 
 
86. Two plant species co-occur in a prairie. Species X 
always occurs near species Y. However, species Y 
often occurs in isolation from species X and 
produces more seeds when alone than when 
growing next to species X. Which of the 
following interactions between species X and Y 
could generate this pattern? 
(A) Competition, in which Y is superior to X in 
accumulating resources 
(B) Mutualism, in which both X and Y benefit 
by exchanging resources 
(C) Parasitism, in which X benefits from 
resources produced by Y and reduces the 
growth of Y by doing so 
(D) Commensalism, in which X benefits from 
resources produced by Y but does not affect 
the growth of Y by doing so 
(E) Amensalism, in which X gains no benefit 
from Y but reduces the growth of Y 
 
87. In the endosymbiont hypothesis for the origin  
of eukaryotic cells, which of the following is 
proposed as the role of cyanobacteria? 
(A) They become the chlorophyll of plant cells. 
(B) They are the ancestor of mitochondria. 
(C) They are the ancestor of the chloroplasts. 
(D) They lose their DNA and become the 
vacuoles of plant cells. 
(E) They lose their photosynthetic pigments and 
become the nuclei of eukaryotes. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
29
 
 
88. The process of speciation can be prevented by 
(A) genetic differentiation 
(B) geographical barriers 
(C) inhibition of gene exchange 
(D) gene flow 
(E) behavioral barriers 
 
89. Small body size often allows animals to exploit 
desert habitats because it 
(A) decreases the ratio of surface area to volume 
and hence the tendency to lose water 
(B) promotes heat gain 
(C) enhances thermal inertia 
(D) enables exploitation of favorable 
microhabitats 
(E) enables prolonged reliance on internal water 
stores 
 
90. All of the following are strategies used by 
potential prey to avoid predation EXCEPT 
(A) mimetic coloration 
(B) erratic flight 
(C) cryptic coloration 
(D) lekking 
(E) alarm signals 
 
91. The amount of genotypic variation in a natural 
population can be increased by all of the following 
EXCEPT 
(A) mutation 
(B) recombination 
(C) immigration 
(D) hybridization 
(E) inbreeding 
 
 
92. The graph above illustrates a simplified description 
of the effect of disturbance on species diversity. 
Which of the following best explains the graph? 
(A) Productivity is enhanced at intermediate 
levels of disturbance. 
(B) Stabilizing selection occurs at intermediate 
levels of disturbance. 
(C) The interaction of physical factors and 
biological competition increases diversity at 
intermediate levels of disturbance. 
(D) Directional selection is enhanced by 
increased disturbance. 
(E) Food chains are disrupted at high and low 
levels of disturbance. 
 
93. Plants having C4 metabolism are common in all 
of the following regions EXCEPT 
(A) taiga 
(B) warm deserts 
(C) tropical grasslands 
(D) tropical agricultural areas 
(E) deserts with limited trace elements 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
30
 
 
 
 
94. The graphs above show that the relationship between 
atmospheric CO2 and mean global temperature is 
(A) a positive correlation 
(B) an inverse relationship 
(C) a cause-and-effect relationship 
(D) evidence of an impending ice age 
(E) no relationship at all 
 
 
 
 
95. Which of the following is NOT a hypothesis  
explaining the advantage of group living? 
(A) Vigilance effect 
(B) Dilution effect 
(C) Group foraging 
(D) Group defense 
(E) Parasite avoidance 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
31
 
 
 
 
96. The graphs above show the survivorship and fecundity curves 
for two congeneric species, X and Y, that are found in 
different habitats. Of the two species, Y is more likely to 
(A) come from a disturbed habitat in early succession 
(B) have a longer generation time 
(C) have a lower fecundity 
(D) have a longer life span 
(E) have low dispersal ability 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
32
 
 
97. If average family size for the human population 
could be immediately reduced to two children per 
couple, the population would 
(A) remain constant 
(B) begin an immediate decline 
(C) continue to increase for 20 to 40 years 
(D) continue to increase indefinitely 
(E) crash within 5 years 
 
 
 
98. The figure above illustrates the relationship 
between population density in the present 
generation (Nt) and population density in the  
next generation (Nt+1). The dashed reference  
line has a slope of 1. Which of the following 
represents equilibrium density of this population? 
(A) I 
(B) II 
(C) III 
(D) IV 
(E) There is no equilibrium. 
 
99. Reproductive value (Vx) calculated from  
population life-table data provides a measure  
of the 
(A) contribution of an individual of age x to the 
future growth of the population relative to  
a newborn?s contribution 
(B) average number of offspring produced by  
a female during age interval x 
(C) proportion of available resources allocated to 
reproduction in individuals in population x 
(D) probability of offspring surviving to age  
class x 
(E) intrinsic growth rate of the population 
 
 100. Life-history characteristics associated with  
K-selected organisms include 
(A) rapid reproductive rates, short generation 
times, and large body size 
(B) repeated reproduction, few progeny, and 
large body size 
(C) inhabiting early successional state commu-
nities, rapid maturation rates, and numerous 
large offspring 
(D) inhabiting climax communities, many small 
offspring, and short life span 
(E) poor competitive ability, rapid maturation 
rates, and short life span 
 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
33
 
 
dN K N
rNdt K  
 101. The logistic equation above is used to describe the 
rate of change of a population, N, with time, t, 
where r is the intrinsic rate of increase and K is 
the carrying capacity. Which of the following 
statements is true for this equation? 
(A) For a given population, r is variable. 
(B) For a given environment, K is variable. 
(C) As N approaches K, dN/dt approaches 0. 
(D) As N approaches K, dN/dt approaches K. 
(E) As N approaches K, dN/dt approaches r. 
 
 102. Which of the following biomes is characterized 
by a wet, mild winter and a warm, dry summer? 
(A) Taiga 
(B) Tundra 
(C) Chaparral 
(D) Tropical rain forest 
(E) Temperate deciduous forest 
 
 103. If a species is a keystone predator, then its removal 
from a community should 
(A) decrease population size of the predator?s 
preferred prey 
(B) decrease species diversity in the prey 
community 
(C) decrease productivity of the predator?s 
preferred prey 
(D) increase species diversity in the prey 
community 
(E) increase the number of trophic levels 
 
 
 104. The diagram above depicts three general types of 
survivorship curves. Only the form of the curve is 
important, not its absolute scale. Which of the 
following statements is LEAST likely to be true? 
(A) Nearly constant mortality results in a Type II 
curve. 
(B) A fish that lays vast numbers of eggs exhibits 
a Type III curve. 
(C) Mortality that is initially low, then increases 
rapidly during old age, results in a Type I 
curve. 
(D) Currently, human populations in the United 
States and Europe generally exhibit a Type I 
curve. 
(E) A species with high juvenile mortality and 
high adult survivorship results in a Type I 
curve. 
 
 105. All of the following may be considered as sites 
for secondary succession EXCEPT 
(A) an abandoned agricultural field 
(B) a bare rock shelf on a mountainside 
(C) a forest gap resulting from a tree fall 
(D) a hurricane-damaged forest 
(E) a flooded valley 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
34
 
 
 
 
 106. The figure above shows the distribution of 10 plant  
species that grow along a regular environmental gradient, 
such as depth of the water table in a river valley. All  
other environmental factors are similar. This figure 
demonstrates that 
(A) species richness increases along the gradient  
from A to E 
(B) species richness decreases along the gradient  
from A to E 
(C) discrete communities are formed at sites D and E  
(D) discrete communities are formed at sites A, C, and D 
(E) no discrete communities are formed along the gradient 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
35
 
 
 107. Acid rain damage depends on the buffering 
capacity of the soils in a given region. Damage 
has been greatest where the soil layer is 
(A) thin and contains little calcium and 
magnesium 
(B) thin and contains abundant calcium and 
magnesium 
(C) thin and contains abundant calcium but little 
magnesium 
(D) thick and contains abundant calcium and 
magnesium 
(E) thick and contains little calcium and 
magnesium 
 
 108. Nitrogen is a major environmental pollutant of 
groundwater in many parts of the world. What is 
the major cause of this nitrogen accumulation in 
groundwater? 
(A) Excessive use of nitrogen fertilizers
 
(B) Destruction of nitrifying bacteria, which 
results in soil nitrogen remaining as NH4+ 
(C) Excess soil moisture, which causes ammo-
nification or denitrification
 
(D) Presence of sandy-textured soil
 
(E) Lack of moisture in the topsoil, which attracts
 
nitrogen to the subsurface and groundwater 
 
 109. The phosphoglucomutase (Pgm) locus in 
California populations of Nuttall?s white-crowned 
sparrow has allelic frequencies of 0.8 and 0.2, 
respectively, for the alleles Pgm-A and Pgm-B. 
What is the probability that two heterozygous 
individuals will mate, given that Pgm is in 
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium? 
(A) 0.01 
(B) 0.10 
(C) 0.16 
(D) 0.32 
(E) 0.60 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
36
 
 
 
B 
 
GENOTYPES 
 
RR Rr rr Total 
 
Initial frequency 
 
 
p2 
 
2pq 
 
q2 
 
p2 + 2pq + q2 
Adaptive value 
 
1 1 1 ? s  
Frequency after 
selection 
 
p2 2pq q2(1 ? s) 1 ? sq2 
Relative genotype 
frequency after  
one generation  
of selection 
2
21
p
sq
 2
2
1
pq
sq
 
2
2
1
1
q s
sq
 
1 
 
 110. For a trait controlled by a single-locus, two-allele 
system with complete dominance, p is the gene 
frequency of R, the dominant allele, q is the gene 
frequency of r, the recessive allele, and s is the 
selection coefficient against the recessive 
homozygote. The table above indicates the effects  
of natural selection on genotype frequencies over 
one generation. 
  After one generation of such selection, the relative 
frequency of the recessive allele, r, will be equal to 
(A) 212 2 1pq q s  
(B) 
21
2
2
2 1
1
pq q s
sq
 
(C) 
2
2
1
1
q s
sq
 
(D) 
21
2
2
2
1
pq p
sq
 
(E) 212 2pq q  
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
37
 
 
 111. Sewall Wright?s metaphor of evolution on an 
adaptive landscape describes a population as 
occupying a field of genotypes graded by 
contours delimiting gene combinations of equal 
fitness. The evolutionary mechanism most likely 
to move a population consistently ?uphill? toward 
adaptive peaks on this landscape is 
(A) chance 
(B) directed mutation 
(C) natural selection 
(D) gene flow between populations 
(E) genotypic recombination 
 
 112. When exposed to a cold environment for several 
weeks, many small mammals dramatically 
increase their capacity for heat production 
primarily by means of 
(A) decreased insulation 
(B) increased insulation 
(C) increased renal function 
(D) shivering thermogenesis 
(E) nonshivering thermogenesis 
 
 113. Plant species A has a diploid number of 12, while 
species B has a diploid number of 16. Which of 
the following would be the diploid number of an 
allotetraploid derived from a hybrid between these 
two species? 
(A) 14 
(B) 28 
(C) 40 
(D) 44 
(E) 56 
 
 114. If two parents that are heterozygous (Aa) at  
a single locus give rise to offspring that are  
25 percent AA, 50 percent Aa, and 25 percent  
aa, then all of the following are true EXCEPT: 
(A) The parents are diploid organisms. 
(B) The a allele is recessive lethal. 
(C) The alleles assort independently. 
(D) The gametes combine at random. 
(E) The probability that a given gamete  
will receive allele A is one-half. 
 
 
 115. In a certain species of lizard, there are two color 
morphs associated with a single locus (Y) having 
two alleles (Y, y):  yellow (yy) and green (YY, Yy). 
The fitness of the morphs is frequency-dependent, 
as indicated in the graph above. If the frequency 
of the yellow morph in a population is 0.70 and 
individuals are randomly mating, then the 
expected equilibrium population due to natural 
selection is 
(A) monomorphic for yellow morphs 
(B) monomorphic for green morphs 
(C) polymorphic with a stable ratio of about  
1:1 of yellow to green morphs 
(D) polymorphic with oscillating frequencies of 
yellow and green morphs 
(E) polymorphic, but always with a higher 
frequency of yellow morphs than green 
morphs 
 
 116. The fitness of a genotype is higher when it is rare 
in a population than when it is common. Which of 
the following types of selection is most likely 
operating? 
(A) Density-independent selection 
(B) Frequency-dependent selection 
(C) Directional selection 
(D) Stabilizing selection 
(E) Disruptive selection 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
38
 
 
 117. The mating system in which a female defends a 
large, multipurpose territory within which several 
males defend smaller, exclusive territories is 
known as 
(A) polygynandry 
(B) resource defense polygyny 
(C) resource defense polyandry 
(D) resource defense promiscuity 
(E) harem defense polygyny 
 
 118. One theory of the evolution of cooperation in 
animals states that under conditions of low 
resource availability, some members of a 
population are willing to sacrifice their own 
efforts to reproduce to ensure that the population 
as a whole will not exhaust all its resources and 
go extinct. Which level of selection is described 
in this model? 
(A) Directional selection 
(B) Individual selection 
(C) Disruptive selection 
(D) Stabilizing selection 
(E) Group selection 
 
 119. Charles Darwin discussed all of the following 
EXCEPT: 
(A) Natural selection tends to remove those 
organisms that are poorly adapted to their 
environments. 
(B) Individuals in a population compete with  
one another for limited resources. 
(C) Gene mutations are the source of variation  
for evolution. 
(D) Organisms tend to produce more offspring 
than can survive in each generation. 
(E) Individuals within species exhibit variability 
in form and function. 
 
 120. When numbers of organisms and amounts of 
living material in successively higher trophic 
levels are compared, the values usually take the 
form of a pyramid, with the largest numbers and 
greatest biomass in the producer trophic level. 
However, in some marine ecosystems, the 
consumer trophic levels contain significantly 
greater amounts of living material than does  
the primary-producer trophic level. The best 
explanation for this is which of the following? 
(A) The main primary producers in marine 
ecosystems are microscopic algae with 
extremely high rates of population turnover. 
(B) Most consumers in marine ecosystems are 
filter feeders that must maintain large 
basketlike structures for extracting food 
from the water. 
(C) The increased availability of solar radiation 
in marine ecosystems means that fewer 
primary producers are required to support 
marine food chains. 
(D) Marine zooplankton often produce large 
extensions of their bodies in order to 
increase buoyancy. 
(E) The largest consumers in marine ecosystems, 
the baleen whales, are essentially filter 
feeders. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
39
 
 
 121. Two populations of sunflowers, A and B, differ  
in the heritability of the oil content in their seeds;  
H2 equals 0.40 in population A, while H2 equals  
0.70 in population B. Which of the following  
statements about these sunflower populations is  
correct? 
(A) Population A?s seeds have a lower oil 
content than those of B. 
(B) The variability in seed oil content is higher  
in population B than in A. 
(C) Population A grows in a more diverse and 
unstable environment than does B. 
(D) Proportionately more phenotypic variation  
is environmental variation in population A 
than in B. 
(E) Population B has more genetic variation for 
seed oil content than does A. 
 
 122. From an evolutionary point of view, plant tendrils 
derived from leaves and those derived from stems 
are examples of 
(A) analogous structures resulting from 
convergence only 
(B) homologous structures resulting from 
convergence only 
(C) analogous structures resulting from 
divergence only 
(D) homologous structures resulting from 
divergence only 
(E) both analogous and homologous structures 
resulting from divergence 
 
 123. Which of the following is characteristic of 
allopatric speciation? 
(A) Large populations 
(B) Asexually reproducing populations 
(C) Geographic isolation 
(D) Isolation through adaptation of alleles 
(E) The sudden appearance of new species 
 
1 Tyrannosaurus (dinosaur) 
2. Lobe-finned fishes 
3. Great apes 
4. Eohippus (horse) 
5. Trilobites 
 
 124. Which of the following represents the proper 
sequence, from the earliest in the fossil record  
to the latest, of the animals listed above? 
(A) 1, 2, 5, 4, 3 
(B) 2, 5, 1, 3, 4 
(C) 2, 5, 1, 4, 3 
(D) 5, 1, 2, 3, 4 
(E) 5, 2, 1, 4, 3 
 
 125. Invasion of the land by vascular plants most likely 
began in which of the following periods? 
(A) Precambrian 
(B) Silurian 
(C) Pennsylvanian 
(D) Cretaceous 
(E) Jurassic 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
40
 
 
Directions:  Each group of questions below consists of five lettered headings followed by a list of numbered words, 
phrases, or sentences. For each numbered word, phrase or sentence, select the one heading that is most closely 
related to it and fill in completely the corresponding space on the answer sheet. One heading may be used once, 
more than once, or not at all in each group. 
 
Questions 126-129  
(A) Gross primary production 
(B) Net primary production 
(C) Decomposition 
(D) Secondary production 
(E) Assimilation 
 
 126. Gross energy intake by animals minus egested 
energy losses 
 
 127. Stored energy left in plants after respiration 
 
 128. Total amount of energy fixed by autotrophs 
 
 129. Total energy present at the consumer level 
 
Questions 130-132 refer to the following. 
(A) Myelin 
(B) Dendrite 
(C) Axon 
(D) Efferent neuron 
(E) Synapse 
 
 130. Increases the speed of nerve impulse propagation 
 
 131. Transmits nerve impulses from the cell body 
 
 132. Is a functional contact between neurons 
 
Questions 133-135 refer to the following. 
(A) Clathrin 
(B) Mannose 6-phosphate 
(C) Dolichol phosphate 
(D) Signal sequence 
(E) Tubulin 
 
 133. Targets lysosomal hydrolases to lysosomes 
 
 134. Targets proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum 
 
 135. Stabilizes regions of the plasma membrane where 
coated pits are formed 
 
Questions 136-138  
(A) Stabilizing selection 
(B) Group selection 
(C) Directional selection 
(D) Disruptive selection 
(E) Kin selection 
 
 136. Intermediate-sized sparrows have higher survival 
during a storm than those of extreme sizes. 
 
 137. Rats with either a high or a low level of testos- 
terone have higher survival than those with an 
intermediate level. 
 
 138. Over a 50-year period, the melanic (dark) form  
of a moth increases from less than 1% to more 
than 95% of the population because melanic 
moths experience less predation from birds than 
do non-melanic moths. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
41
 
 
Questions 139-141 refer to the following enzymes. 
(A) Pyruvate dehydrogenase
 
(B) Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (rubisco)
 
(C) Phosphofructokinase
 
(D) F1ATPase 
(E) Aldolase 
 
 139. Enzyme involved in carbon fixation by 
chloroplasts 
 
 140. Enzyme that catalyzes a major regulation point of 
glycolysis 
 
 141. Enzyme complex responsible for catalyzing the 
reaction that is the transition between glycolysis 
and the citric acid (Krebs) cycle 
 
Questions 142-144 refer to the following cell types 
from the vascular tissue of a plant. 
(A) Vessel members 
(B) Tracheids 
(C) Fibers 
(D) Sieve-tube members 
(E) Pith ray cells 
 
 142. The most primitive vascular plant cells that 
conduct water and provide support 
 
 143. Cells that primarily provide rapid transport of 
water in angiosperms 
 
 144. Cells that transport photosynthate 
 
Questions 145-147 refer to the following. 
(A) Leucine zipper motif 
(B) Zinc finger motif 
(C) Transcription factor IID 
(D) Upstream control element 
(E) Enhancer element 
 
 145. Binds to the TATA box and assists in mediating 
multiple rounds of transcription by RNA 
polymerase II 
 
 146. DNA sequence required for gene transcription 
that extends approximately 100 nucleotide pairs  
in front of the RNA start site 
 
 147. Stimulates RNA transcription from either an 
upstream or downstream position 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
42
 
 
 
Questions 148-150 refer to the diagram below of a capillary net around an alveolus. 
 
(A) Alveolar space 
(B) Alveolar wall 
(C) Capillary wall 
(D) Plasma 
(E) Erythrocyte 
 
 148. Prior to equilibrium, the highest partial pressure  
of oxygen occurs at this site. 
 
 149. Carbon monoxide causes respiratory failure by  
outcompeting oxygen at this site. 
 
 150. Hemoglobin is located primarily at this site. 
 
 
 
 
Questions 151-153  
(A) Tethys 
(B) Pangea 
(C) Gondwana 
(D) Laurasia 
(E) Archean 
 
 151. Precursor to the northern group of continents 
 
 152. Precursor to Africa, South America, Australia,  
Antarctica, and India 
 
 153. The supercontinent that began to break up during  
the Triassic 
 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
43
 
 
Directions:  Each group of questions below concerns a laboratory or an experimental situation. In each case, first 
study the description of the situation. Then choose the one best answer to each question and fill in completely the 
corresponding space on the answer sheet. 
 
Questions 154-155  
M-phase-promoting factor (MPF) triggers mitosis by activating other proteins that function in cell division. 
Active MPF consists of two associated proteins, cyclin and Cdc2. The Cdc2 component of active MPF is a protein 
kinase. The relative concentrations of active MPF, Cdc2, and cyclin were monitored during the cell cycle and are 
depicted in the figure below. 
 
 
 
 154. During the cell cycle, active MPF decreases at the 
end of mitosis. This can be best explained by the 
(A) increase in Cdc2 during mitosis 
(B) increase in cyclin during mitosis 
(C) decrease in cyclin during mitosis 
(D) decrease in Cdc2 during mitosis 
(E) decrease in inactive MPF during mitosis 
 
 155. If MPF activates a series of enzymes, one of 
which inactivates MPF, it is likely that one of the 
enzymes activated by MPF 
(A) degrades cyclin only 
(B) degrades Cdc2 only 
(C) degrades cyclin and Cdc2 
(D) stimulates cyclin  
(E) stimulates Cdc2 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
44
 
 
Questions 156-157 refer to the following experiment. 
The marine coenocytic green alga Caulerpa grows in a unidirectional pattern. Photosynthetic fronds are produced 
on its upper surface and anchoring rhizoids on the lower surface (Figure I). When the same organism was inverted, 
new rhizoids were then initiated on the newly formed lower surface, while fronds were initiated on the newly formed 
upper surface (Figure II). 
 
Secondary fronds can be initiated from the margins of the primary fronds. In another experiment, it was found 
that if the secondary fronds are initiated after the plant has been inverted, they will grow upward, even if the frond 
from which they are growing is oriented downward (Figure III). 
 
 
 
 156. Which of the following conclusions is best indi- 
cated by the additional experiment in Figure III ? 
(A) Cellular gravity sensors are likely not respon- 
sible for the establishment of polarity. 
(B) Tip growth always occurs perpendicular to 
the pull of gravity. 
(C) Newly formed cytoplasm is fully differen- 
tiated and cannot respond to altered 
orientation. 
(D) The change in polarity is expressed only in 
newly formed cytoplasm. 
(E) Coenocytic organisms do not display cellular 
differentiation. 
 157. Which of the following procedures would best 
test whether the induction of polarity is regulated 
at the transcriptional level? 
(A) Expose plants to a protein synthesis inhibitor, 
then invert. 
(B) Invert plants, then expose to a protein 
synthesis inhibitor. 
(C) Expose plants to an RNA synthesis inhibitor, 
then invert. 
(D) Invert plants, then expose to an RNA 
synthesis inhibitor. 
(E) Expose plants to a DNA synthesis inhibitor, 
then invert. 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
45
 
 
Questions 158-159 
The average daily temperature change on an exposed south-facing slope and a north-facing slope for a late 
summer day in the Northern Hemisphere are shown below. 
 
 
 
 158. Compared with a south-facing slope, the climatic 
conditions on a north-facing slope favor the 
formation of a vegetation community best 
adapted to 
(A) colder temperatures and wetter environments 
(B) colder temperatures and drier environments 
(C) hotter temperatures and similar moisture 
environments 
(D) hotter temperatures and wetter environments 
(E) hotter temperatures and drier environments 
 
 159. The difference in the maximum average daily 
temperature between the south-facing slope and 
the north-facing slope is approximately 
(A) 0?C 
(B) 5?C 
(C) 10?C 
(D) 25?C 
(E) 35?C 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
46
 
 
Questions 160-163 
In experiments to determine possible metabolic side effects of a new industrial by-product X941, the rate of 
respiratory oxygen consumption by isolated mitochondria was assayed. The mitochondria were maintained in a 
solution containing high concentrations of dissolved oxygen and inorganic phosphate. 
 
Figure 1 shows the results of a control experiment. Pyruvic acid, the principal metabolic precursor for the citric 
acid cycle, was added to isolated mitochondria, followed a short time later by the addition of ADP. Figure 2 
illustrates the effect of adding X941 instead of ADP. 
 
 
 
 160. Which of the following best explains why O2 
concentration does not decrease until after the 
addition of ADP, as shown in Figure 1 ? 
(A) The proton gradient that drives electron 
transport can be produced only by 
phosphorylation of ADP. 
(B) A complete turn of the citric acid cycle 
requires several ADP?s directly. 
(C) ADP is a substrate, along with pyruvate, for 
pyruvate dehydrogenase. 
(D) ADP is an allosteric activator of cytochrome 
oxidase, which is unable to transfer 
electrons to O2 without ADP. 
(E) The proton gradient produced by pyruvate 
metabolism quickly inhibits electron 
transport; the inhibition is released by ATP 
synthesis. 
 
 161. Which of the following is the most likely reason 
that O2 consumption stops a short time after the 
addition of ADP, as shown in Figure 1 ? 
(A) The O2 concentration has fallen to zero. 
(B) Most of the ADP has been phosphorylated.
 
(C) The mitochondria have burst from excess 
ATP.
 
(D) The pyruvate dehydrogenase activity has 
been destroyed.
 
(E) The electron transport system has been 
denatured. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
47
 
 
 162. In Figure 2, the addition of X941 results in the 
nearly complete depletion of the O2 in the assay 
mixture. A further test showed that this depletion 
occurred even when inorganic phosphate was 
omitted from the assay. The most likely 
explanation for the effect of X941 is that X941 
(A) allows O2 to leak out of the mitochondria 
(B) is a precursor to the synthesis of ADP
 
(C) uncouples ADP phosphorylation from 
electron transport
 
(D) serves as an alternative electron acceptor in 
the system
 
(E) serves as an allosteric activator of pyruvate 
dehydrogenase 
 
 163. If X941 is an ionophore, which of the following 
best describes its mode of action? 
(A) It rearranges the mitochondrial membrane,
 
thus allowing O2 to pick up electrons of 
higher energy.
 
(B) It allows O2 to diffuse through the inner 
mitochondrial membrane more quickly.
 
(C) It sequesters ions that are known to inhibit 
the transfer of electrons to O2. 
(D) It allows protons to diffuse through the inner
 
mitochondrial membrane, thus dissipating 
the proton gradient.
 
(E) It acts as an electron donor, thus providing
 
the electron transport system with a large
 
number of electrons to reduce O2. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
48
 
 
Questions 164-167  
Graphs showing the metabolic response of five different species of animals at various ambient temperature 
exposures are shown below. The average body mass of each of the species is 25 grams. All measurements were 
made using respirometers in the lab with the animals at rest and postabsorptive. 
 
 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
49
 
 
 164. Of the species studied, which is best insulated? 
(A) Species A 
(B) Species B 
(C) Species C 
(D) Species D 
(E) Species E 
 
 165. Of the species studied, which has the highest 
basal metabolic rate? 
(A) Species A 
(B) Species B 
(C) Species C 
(D) Species D 
(E) Species E 
 
 166. Which of the following can be concluded for 
species C, D, and E ? 
(A) Metabolic costs increase with increased body 
mass. 
(B) Metabolic expenditures decrease below the 
lower critical temperature. 
(C) The lowest metabolic costs are in the 
thermoneutral zone. 
(D) The lowest metabolic costs are attained at an 
ambient temperature of 20?C. 
(E) The animals require no energy input in the 
thermoneutral zone. 
 
 167. Which of the following pairs of species are 
ectotherms? 
(A) Species A and B 
(B) Species A and C 
(C) Species B and D 
(D) Species B and E 
(E) Species C and D 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
50
 
 
Questions 168-171 
The graph below shows the growth rates of populations of bacteria that have evolved for many generations  
at different culture temperatures (25?C, 30?C, and 35?C). Each population grows over only a limited range of 
temperatures (its thermal niche), which are bounded by its critical thermal limits. Within this range, growth rate 
increases with temperature up to a maximal value and then declines rapidly with increasing temperature. Growth 
rates are known to be the major determinant of fitness for these bacteria. 
 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
51
 
 
 168. Which of the following is true concerning the 
thermal dependence of growth rate between 25?C 
and 30?C in these populations? 
(A) Thermal dependence is greatest in the 
population evolved at 25?C. 
(B) Thermal dependence is greatest in the 
population evolved at 30?C. 
(C) Thermal dependence is greatest in the 
population evolved at 35?C. 
(D) Growth rates of all populations are equally 
thermally dependent over this temperature 
range. 
(E) Growth rates of all populations are thermally 
independent over this temperature range. 
 
 169. Which population has the highest fitness at 25?C ? 
(A) The population evolved at 25?C. 
(B) The population evolved at 30?C. 
(C) The population evolved at 35?C. 
(D) All populations are equally fit at this 
temperature. 
(E) It cannot be determined from the information 
given. 
 
 170. Which of the following can be correctly concluded 
from this experiment? 
(A) The temperature range of the thermal niche 
remains constant at different evolutionary 
temperatures, even though critical thermal 
limits may change. 
(B) Critical thermal limits remain constant during 
evolution at different temperatures. 
(C) The same maximal growth rate is attained in 
all three populations, but it is attained at 
different temperatures. 
(D) Maximal growth rate is not always attained at 
the temperature at which a population 
evolved. 
(E) No evolutionary changes have occurred in 
these populations. 
 
 171. If all three populations were mixed together and 
placed at 37?C, which of the following would be 
most likely to happen? 
(A) Only the population evolved at 25?C would 
die and become extinct. 
(B) Only the population evolved at 35?C would 
survive and reproduce. 
(C) All the bacteria would die and the 
populations would become extinct. 
(D) All populations would grow, and transfer of 
genes would create one common population. 
(E) It cannot be determined from the information 
given. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
52
 
 
Questions 172-174 refer to the following experiment. 
The graph below contains data obtained in an experiment designed to elucidate the mechanism of sucrose uptake 
by the marine bacterium Vibrio alginolyticus. Sucrose uptake was determined by incubating washed cells in  
[14C]-sucrose for short periods of time, harvesting, rewashing the cells, and measuring the sucrose present. Uptake 
was measured in the presence of Na+, Na+ plus CCCP (an inhibitor of proton gradient formation), K+, and Li+. 
 
 
 
 172. Based on the data, which of the following state-
ments best describes the uptake of sucrose by 
these cells? 
(A) Sucrose crosses the membrane by simple 
diffusion. 
(B) Sucrose is transported by a carrier-mediated 
system. 
(C) Sucrose transport is not dependent on Na+. 
(D) Sucrose transport occurs by only one 
mechanism. 
(E) Sucrose is not transported into the cell under 
most conditions. 
 
 173. The primary reason for testing the effects of 
CCCP is to determine whether 
(A) the effect of Li+ is dependent on Na+
 
(B) a proton gradient is required for sucrose 
transport
 
(C) Na+ transport occurs alone
 
(D) nonsaturable transport occurs
 
(E) K+ can substitute for Na+ in sucrose 
transport 
 174. Which of the following is the best explanation for 
the effects of Li+ and K+ on the uptake of 
sucrose? 
(A) These ions bind to sucrose and block its entry 
into the cell. 
(B) These ions decrease the net Na+ available in
 
the cells for cotransport. 
(C) These ions uncouple the respiratory process 
that generates energy for the uptake of 
sucrose. 
(D) These ions are not transported rapidly by the
 
Na+/sucrose cotransporter system.
 
(E) These ions are allosteric effectors of the
 
sucrose transporter system. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
53
 
 
Questions 175-177 
The concept of species diversity has two components:  evenness and richness. Evenness is based on the relative 
abundance of species. Richness is based on the total number of species present. Diversity indices combine a measure 
of richness and evenness. The Simpson index (C) is calculated from the following equation. 
 
2C n / Ni
i  
 
where 
ni = importance value for each species 
N = total importance values 
 
Below are data collected in two terrestrial plant communities that represent part of a successional chronosequence. In 
this case, importance values were measured as percent cover. 
 
EARLY-SUCCESSIONAL  
COMMUNITY 
 LATE-SUCCESSIONAL  
COMMUNITY 
 
Species 
Percent  
Cover 
  
Species 
Percent  
Cover 
A 83  F 24 
B 5  G 20 
C 9  H 18 
D 2  I 23 
E 1  J 15 
 
 175. The Simpson index value for the late-successional 
community is 
(A) 1.00 
(B) 0.410 
(C) 0.205 
(D) 0.0410 
(E) 0.0205 
 
 176. The data indicate that, relative to the early-
successional community, the late-successional 
community has which of the following 
characteristics? 
 Species Richness Evenness
 
(A) Higher Higher  
(B) Higher Lower 
(C) Same Lower 
(D) Same Higher 
(E) Lower Lower 
 
 177. Experimental removal of species B and C in the 
early-successional community resulted in a slower 
subsequent colonization and establishment of 
species F and G. This result suggests that the 
primary mechanism by which F and G replace 
B and C during succession is 
(A) inhibition 
(B) facilitation 
(C) competitive displacement 
(D) allelopathy 
(E) facultative mutualism 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
54
 
 
Questions 178-181 refer to the following experiment. 
 
 
The two graphs above indicate the relationship between oxygen content and oxygen partial pressure (Po2) in 
samples of blood taken from two species of vertebrates (species I and species II). Each sample was subjected to two 
levels of carbon dioxide pressure (Pco2):  curve A represents the values measured at normal Pco2 and curve B 
represents the values measured at elevated Pco2. The blood passing through the lungs of these species normally has a 
Po2 of 100 millimeters of mercury and the venous blood leaving the tissues has a Po2 of 40 millimeters of mercury. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
55
 
 
 178. When curve A for species I is compared to 
curve A for species II, it can be predicted that  
the O2 concentration of the blood will be 
(A) higher in the lung for species I than for 
species II 
(B) lower in the lung for species I than for 
species II 
(C) higher in species I at all pressures 
(D) lower in species I at all pressures 
(E) the same in both species at all pressures 
 
 179. If deoxygenated blood samples were exposed 
 
to increasing Po2, the first sample to become 
saturated with O2 would be from which of the 
following? 
(A) Species I at normal Pco2 
(B) Species I at elevated Pco2 
(C) Species II at normal Pco2 
(D) Species II at elevated Pco2 
(E) There are no differences. 
 
 180. Which of the following statements best describes 
the effect of increased carbon dioxide pressure in 
the blood of the two species? 
(A) It affects oxygen affinity and oxygen-
carrying capacity in one species only. 
(B) It increases the oxygen affinity but has no 
effect on oxygen-carrying capacity in either 
species. 
(C) It reduces the oxygen affinity and the 
oxygen-carrying capacity in both species. 
(D) It reduces oxygen affinity but has no effect 
on oxygen-carrying capacity in either 
species. 
(E) It has no effect on either oxygen affinity or 
oxygen-carrying capacity in either species. 
 
 181. If the Pco2 of arterial blood is equivalent to that 
used to obtain curve A and if venous Pco2 
corresponds to that used to obtain curve B, how 
much oxygen will be released from a liter of 
blood as it passes through the tissues in species I ? 
(A) 20 mL 
(B) 40 mL 
(C) 120 mL 
(D) 160 mL 
(E) 200 mL 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
56
 
 
Questions 182-185 refer to the following model as an example of adaptive radiation and species 
diversification. 
One of the classical examples of evolution occurs on the Gal?pagos Islands with Darwin?s finches. The islands 
have always been separate from the South American mainland and vary in size and elevation. The lowlands are 
covered with thorn scrub, while higher elevations (found only on the larger islands) are covered with moist, dense 
forests. All the organisms living on these islands are descendants of species that have emigrated there, primarily 
from South America. In studying the finch populations, researchers have identified fourteen species, none of which 
are found on the mainland. 
 
 182. The initial colonizing population of finches most 
likely exhibited which of the following? 
(A) Hybridization with bird species already 
existing on the islands 
(B) High rates of interbreeding with mainland 
populations 
(C) Increased rates of mutation to fill habitats 
(D) A novel behavior not seen in mainland 
populations 
(E) A smaller gene pool than that of the mainland 
populations 
 
 183. As opposed to the mainland, on the islands the 
initial colonists (finches) had the opportunity to 
evolve in new directions primarily because there 
(A) was an absence of interspecific competition 
(B) was mixing of the gene pool 
(C) was a higher mutation rate 
(D) was higher predation pressure 
(E) were higher levels of inbreeding 
 
 184. Initially, one species of finch may have settled on 
two different islands, maintained this separation 
over hundreds of years, and eventually followed 
divergent adaptive pathways. If these now two 
separate species should migrate onto a new island, 
they could maintain their individual species 
identities on this island in all the following ways 
EXCEPT if one species 
(A) hybridizes successfully with the other species 
(B) lives in the forests and the other in the 
scrubland 
(C) carries out different stages of its life cycle at 
different times than the other species 
(D) fails to produce viable young after mating 
with the other species 
(E) is not attracted to the other species for mating 
 
 185. Although the initial finch species on the islands 
may have all been seed eaters, which of the 
following processes minimized competition as the 
population expanded? 
(A) Selection for niche diversification 
(B) Development of more efficient attack 
behavior 
(C) Further emigration when carrying capacity 
was reached 
(D) Genetic drift 
(E) Postzygotic mating factors 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
57
 
 
Questions 186-188 
Lymphocytes extracted from the rat kangaroo, Potorous tridactylus, were grown in culture for karyotype analysis. 
To obtain chromosome spreads, such as that illustrated below, lymphocytes were incubated in the antimitotic drug 
colchicine for 30 minutes before fixation and staining. The chromosomes depicted below are representative of the 
karyotype found in all of the cells of the culture. 
 
 
 
 186. Which of the following correctly describes the 
chromosome number in this rat kangaroo cell? 
(A) The haploid chromosome number is 12. 
(B) The haploid chromosome number is 24. 
(C) The diploid chromosome number is 12. 
(D) The diploid chromosome number is 24. 
(E) The triploid chromosome number is 24. 
 
 187. During anaphase, how many kinetochores would 
be expected in a normal rat kangaroo lymphocyte? 
(A) 12 
(B) 18 
(C) 24 
(D) 36 
(E) 48 
 
 188. During S phase, DNA synthesis originates at 
specific sequences in the chromosomal DNA. 
How many sites for initiation of DNA synthesis 
would be expected among the chromosomes 
within the rat kangaroo karyotype during S phase? 
(A) Fewer than 12  
(B) 12 
(C) Between 12 and 24 
(D) 24 
(E) More than 24 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
58
 
 
Questions 189-192  
Protein X is a protein kinase encoded by mRNA X and is normally present in extracts of whole cleavage-stage 
frog embryos. Protein I, encoded by mRNA I, is an inactive mutant form of protein X and blocks the function of 
protein X present in the same cell by competing for binding. The results shown in the table below were obtained  
in a series of experiments in which all four cells in four-cell-stage embryos were injected as shown and allowed  
to develop to the early larval stage. Control embryos were pierced by a needle, but no material was injected. The 
larvae were scored for the presence or absence of eyes in the normal dorsal body axis and for the presence of eyes  
in the ventrally located secondary body axis that formed as a result of some of the treatments. 
 
Material  
Injected 
 
Injection 
Location 
Dorsal Body  
Axis with Eyes 
Ventral Body  
Axis with Eyes 
Control Dorsal 100% 0% 
mRNA X Dorsal 0% 0% 
mRNA I Dorsal 100% 0% 
Control Ventral 100% 0% 
mRNA X Ventral 100% 0% 
mRNA I Ventral 100% 100% 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
59
 
 
 189. The results suggest that protein X has which of 
the following effects on formation of normal head 
structures? 
(A) Weak inhibition 
(B) Weak stimulation 
(C) Strong inhibition 
(D) Strong stimulation 
(E) The effect cannot be evaluated from  
these data. 
 
 190. The data indicate that in at least some cells in the 
frog embryos, translation effectively occurs for 
(A) mRNA X but not mRNA I 
(B) mRNA I but not mRNA X 
(C) neither mRNA X nor mRNA I 
(D) both mRNA X and mRNA I 
(E) most types of mRNA molecules 
 
 191. If translation of mRNA X occurs during cleavage, 
the results suggest that protein X would most 
likely be detectable at which location in untreated 
late-cleavage-stage frog embryos? 
(A) Primarily in the dorsal cells of the embryos 
(B) Primarily in the equatorial cells of the 
embryos 
(C) Primarily in the ventral cells of the embryos 
(D) In all of the cells of the embryos 
(E) In few, if any, of the cells of the embryos 
 
 192. In Mangold and Spemann?s experiments pieces of 
dorsal lip tissue transplanted to the ventral surface 
of amphibian embryos induced the formation of a 
secondary body axis. Their results can be recon-
ciled with the results shown above by assuming 
which of the following about the cells of the 
dorsal lip of the blastopore (Spemann?s primary 
inducer) ? 
(A) They secrete protein X into the extracellular 
matrix of the embryo. 
(B) They destroy protein X in the extracellular 
matrix of the embryo. 
(C) They contain relatively high concentrations 
of protein X. 
(D) They stimulate protein X synthesis or 
increase activity of protein X in 
neighboring cells in the embryo. 
(E) They inhibit protein X synthesis or decrease 
activity of protein X in neighboring cells in 
the embryo. 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
60
 
 
Questions 193-195 
In muscle cells, Ca2+ is actively transported into the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The membranes of the sarcoplasmic 
reticulum can be isolated in the form of microsomes. Each microsome contains several hundred molecules of an 
enzyme that uses ATP as an energy source to drive the inward transport of calcium ions that are added externally.  
In one experiment, the results shown below were obtained. 
 
 
Experimental conditions: 1.0 ml of 0.1 M KCl containing:
 
 5 mM MgCl2 
 5 mM ATP
 
 0.1 mM CaCl2 
 0.1 mg protein (ATPase) 
 
 193. What is the rate of ATP hydrolysis, expressed as 
micromoles of ATP hydrolyzed per milligram of 
protein per minute? 
(A) 2 
(B) 1 
(C) 0.5 
(D) 0.25 
(E) 0.1 
 
 194. What is the ratio of calcium pumped per ATP 
hydrolyzed? 
(A) 1:4 
(B) 1:2 
(C) 1:1 
(D) 2:1 
(E) 4:1 
 
 195. The specific activity for the ATPase enzyme is 
expressed in units of 
(A) mole ATPasesec?1 
(B) mole ATPsec?1mg protein?1 
(C) mole ADPsec?1 
(D) mole ADPsec?1mg protein?1 
(E) mole ADPsec?1mole ATPase?1 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
61
 
 
Questions 196-198 
A species of long-day plant (LDP) and a species of short-day plant (SDP), each having a critical photoperiod of 
10 hours, were placed in growth chambers that provided identical environmental conditions, except for the length  
of the photoperiod. Individuals from each species were treated as indicated in the following table for a period of 
many weeks. 
 
24-hour Cycle 
Treatment Plant Species Hours of Light Hours of Darkness 
1 LDP 8 16 
2 LDP 16 8 
3 SDP 8 16 
4 SDP 16 8 
 
A second experiment was conducted under identical conditions, except that halfway through the dark period the 
lights were switched on for one minute and then switched off. 
 
 196. In the initial experiment, for which of the following 
treatments would the plants be expected to flower? 
(A) 1 and 2 
(B) 1 and 3 
(C) 1 and 4 
(D) 2 and 3 
(E) 2 and 4 
 
 197. In the second experiment, for which of the 
following treatments would the plants be  
expected to flower? 
(A) 1 and 2 
(B) 1 and 3 
(C) 1 and 4 
(D) 2 and 3 
(E) 2 and 4 
 
 198. Which of the following wavelengths of light 
would be the most effective in interrupting the 
dark period in the second experiment? 
(A) 460 nm (blue) 
(B) 520 nm (green) 
(C) 580 nm (yellow) 
(D) 660 nm (red) 
(E) 730 nm (far-red) 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
GO ON TO THE NEXT PAGE. 
62
 
 
Questions 199-200 
The mussel Mytilus edulis thrives in saline habitats, 
in both the highly salty seawater of tidal zones and  
the less salty estuaries. This results in two kinds  
of populations:  one adapted to the higher salt 
concentrations of the tidal zone, and one adapted  
to the lower salt concentrations of the estuary. It has 
been found that the more salt-tolerant populations 
have high frequencies of an allele that produces an 
enzyme involved in maintaining osmotic equilibrium. 
Conversely, estuarine mussels having the same 
enzyme seem to be disfavored and have a much 
higher death rate than mussels without the allele. 
Adult estuarine populations do have lower 
frequencies of this allele. Each spring, large  
numbers of larvae from the salty habitats pour  
into the estuaries. 
 
 199. The invasion of the seawater larvae would be 
expected to facilitate change in the genetic 
structure of the estuarine population by a process 
called 
(A) directional selection 
(B) genetic drift 
(C) gene flow 
(D) disruptive selection 
(E) nonrandom mating 
 
 200. THIS ITEM WAS NOT SCORED.  
        
       
         
        
         
      
   
         
  
        
      
       
      
         
        
       
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this test. 
 
 
 
Unauthorized copying or reuse of 
any part of this page is illegal.
 
63
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NO TEST MATERIAL ON THIS PAGE 
64
NOTE: To ensure prompt processing of test results, it is important that you fi ll in the blanks exactly as directed.
?
A B C D 
A B C D 
A B C D 
A B C D 
E 
E 
E 
E 
A C D E B 
PRINT: ___________________________________________________________________
 (LAST) (FIRST) (MIDDLE)
SIGN: ____________________________________________________________________
I
Educational Testing Service
Princeton, New Jersey 08541
DO NOT OPEN YOUR TEST BOOK UNTIL YOU ARE TOLD TO DO SO.
CORRECT ANSWER
PROPERLY MARKED
IMPROPER MARKS
GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATIONS SUBJECT TEST
B. The Subject Tests are intended to measure your achievement in a specialized fi eld of study. Most of the questions are 
concerned with subject matter that is probably familiar to you, but some of the questions may refer to areas that you 
have not studied.
Your score will be determined by subtracting one-fourth the number of incorrect answers from the number of correct 
answers. Questions for which you mark no answer or more than one answer are not counted in scoring. If you have 
some knowledge of a question and are able to rule out one or more of the answer choices as incorrect, your chances of 
selecting the correct answer are improved, and answering such questions will likely improve your score. It is unlikely 
that pure guessing will raise your score; it may lower your score.
You are advised to use your time effectively and to work as rapidly as you can without losing accuracy. Do not spend 
too much time on questions that are too diffi cult for you. Go on to the other questions and come back to the diffi cult 
ones later if you can.
YOU MUST INDICATE ALL YOUR ANSWERS ON THE SEPARATE ANSWER SHEET. No credit will be given 
for anything written in this examination book, but you may write in the book as much as you wish to work out your 
answers. After you have decided on your response to a question, fi ll in the corresponding oval on the answer sheet. 
BE SURE THAT EACH MARK IS DARK AND COMPLETELY FILLS THE OVAL. Mark only one answer to each 
question. No credit will be given for multiple answers. Erase all stray marks. If you change an answer, be sure that all 
previous marks are erased completely. Incomplete erasures may be read as intended answers. Do not be concerned that 
the answer sheet provides spaces for more answers than there are questions in the test.
Copy the Test Name and Form Code in box 7 on your answer 
sheet.
TEST NAME    ___________________________________
FORM CODE ____________________________________
Copy this code in box 6 on 
your answer sheet. Then 
fi ll in the corresponding 
ovals exactly as shown.
SUBJECT TEST
A. Print and sign 
your full name 
in this box:
GR0624
Biology
Sample AnswerExample:
 What city is the capital of France?
 (A) Rome
 (B) Paris
 (C) London
 (D) Cairo
 (E) Oslo
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
6.  TITLE CODE
2 4 1 5 5
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
65
Scoring Your Subject Test
Biology Test scores are reported on a 200 to 990 
score scale in ten-point increments. The actual 
range of scores is smaller, and it varies from edition 
to edition because different editions are not of pre-
cisely the same diffi culty. However, this variation 
in score range is usually small and should be taken 
into account mainly when comparing two very 
high scores. In general, differences between scores 
at the 99th percentile should be ignored. The score 
conversion table on page 67 shows the score 
range for this edition of the test only.
Subscores are reported as two-digit scaled scores. 
The maximum possible range of Subject Test 
subscores is 20 to 99. Like total scores, the actual 
range of subscores for any test or test edition may be 
smaller than 20 to 99. 
The worksheet on page 66 lists the correct 
answers to the questions. Columns are provided 
for you to mark whether you chose the correct 
(C) answer or an incorrect (I) answer to each ques-
tion. Draw a line across any question you omitted, 
because it is not counted in the scoring. At the 
bottom of the page, enter the total number correct 
and the total number incorrect. Divide the total 
incorrect by 4 and subtract the resulting number 
from the total correct. Then round the result to the 
nearest whole number. This will give you your raw 
total score. Use the total score conversion table to 
fi nd the scaled total score that corresponds to your 
raw total score.
Example: Suppose you chose the correct answers to 
105 questions and incorrect answers to 41. Dividing 
41 by 4 yields 10.3. Subtracting 10.3 from 105 equals 
94.7, which is rounded to 95. The raw score of 95 
corresponds to a scaled score of 670.
The subscore columns in the worksheet can 
be similarly used to tally your correct and incor-
rect responses to the questions that contribute to 
each subscore. We suggest that you circle the ??? 
if you chose the correct answer, and put a minus 
sign beside the ??? for an incorrect answer. Space 
is provided at the bottom right of the worksheet to 
calculate and enter your three raw subscores. The 
subscore conversion table will show you the scaled 
subscores that correspond to your raw subscores.
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
66
Worksheet for the Biology Test, Form GR0624 Only
Answer Key and Percentages* of Examinees Answering Each Question Correctly
Total Correct (C)
Total Incorrect (I)
Total Score:
C ? I/4 = ____________
Scaled Score (SS) = ____________
  
 * The P+ column indicates the percent of BIOLOGY Test examinees who answered each question correctly; it is based on a sample of December 2006 examinees selected to 
represent all BIOLOGY Test examinees tested between July 1, 2004, and June 30, 2007.
 ** Item 200 was not scored when this form of the test was originally administered.
QUESTION
P+
RESPONSE SUBSCORE
Number Answer C I 1 2 3
1 B 70 ?
2 A 84 ?
3 B 70 ?
4 E 67 ?
5 A 82 ?
6 E 59 ?
7 A 78 ?
8 D 10 ?
9 B 65 ?
10 C 45 ?
11 B 74 ?
12 B 47 ?
13 D 41 ?
14 C 58 ?
15 C 63 ?
16 A 49 ?
17 A 18 ?
18 A 28 ?
19 B 68 ?
20 D 68 ?
21 C 78 ?
22 C 26 ?
23 E 29 ?
24 E 70 ?
25 E 34 ?
26 A 92 ?
27 C 63 ?
28 C 56 ?
29 D 11 ?
30 E 63 ?
31 E 23 ?
32 B 33 ?
33 E 29 ?
34 A 32 ?
35 D 44 ?
36 D 56 ?
37 A 28 ?
38 E 45 ?
39 B 34 ?
40 A 60 ?
41 E 39 ?
42 E 49 ?
43 D 57 ?
44 E 89 ?
45 D 77 ?
46 A 76 ?
47 E 71 ?
48 E 58 ?
49 B 44 ?
50 B 91 ?
51 B 37 ?
52 B 13 ?
53 C 83 ?
54 B 32 ?
55 E 61 ?
56 C 35 ?
57 A 69 ?
58 E 55 ?
59 B 67 ?
60 D 44 ?
61 E 34 ?
62 C 34 ?
63 D 43 ?
64 C 54 ?
65 A 80 ?
66 B 72 ?
67 D 46 ?
68 B 46 ?
69 D 24 ?
70 E 64 ?
QUESTION
P+
RESPONSE SUBSCORE
Number Answer C I 1 2 3
71 D 27 ?
72 E 57 ?
73 B 13 ?
74 C 57 ?
75 D 82 ?
76 E 35 ?
77 D 21 ?
78 B 38 ?
79 E 53 ?
80 B 68 ?
81 C 38 ?
82 B 50 ?
83 E 19 ?
84 C 26 ?
85 E 88 ?
86 C 85 ?
87 C 64 ?
88 D 58 ?
89 D 31 ?
90 D 70 ?
91 E 95 ?
92 C 49 ?
93 A 59 ?
94 A 85 ?
95 E 65 ?
96 A 61 ?
97 C 27 ?
98 B 60 ?
99 A 15 ?
100 B 55 ?
101 C 64 ?
102 C 43 ?
103 B 47 ?
104 E 70 ?
105 B 76 ?
106 E 65 ?
107 A 62 ?
108 A 74 ?
109 B 21 ?
110 B 35 ?
111 C 59 ?
112 E 26 ?
113 B 40 ?
114 B 69 ?
115 A 15 ?
116 B 54 ?
117 C 54 ?
118 E 67 ?
119 C 67 ?
120 A 59 ?
121 D 26 ?
122 A 31 ?
123 C 66 ?
124 E 72 ?
125 B 12 ?
126 E 28 ?
127 B 63 ?
128 A 80 ?
129 D 45 ?
130 A 84 ?
131 C 72 ?
132 E 82 ?
133 B 13 ?
134 D 37 ?
135 A 38 ?
136 A 76 ?
137 D 65 ?
138 C 76 ?
139 B 71 ?
140 C 44 ?
QUESTION
P+
RESPONSE SUBSCORE
Number Answer C I 1 2 3
141 A 69 ?
142 B 33 ?
143 A 23 ?
144 D 29 ?
145 C 47 ?
146 D 55 ?
147 E 50 ?
148 A 57 ?
149 E 48 ?
150 E 80 ?
151 D 38 ?
152 C 44 ?
153 B 78 ?
154 C 73 ?
155 A 66 ?
156 D 47 ?
157 C 42 ?
158 A 53 ?
159 C 91 ?
160 E 11 ?
161 B 74 ?
162 C 24 ?
163 D 12 ?
164 C 49 ?
165 E 54 ?
166 C 68 ?
167 A 83 ?
168 C 51 ?
169 B 79 ?
170 D 79 ?
171 B 83 ?
172 B 66 ?
173 B 72 ?
174 D 33 ?
175 C 19 ?
176 D 61 ?
177 B 35 ?
178 A 56 ?
179 C 49 ?
180 D 34 ?
181 D 14 ?
182 E 65 ?
183 A 65 ?
184 A 84 ?
185 A 76 ?
186 C 63 ?
187 C 48 ?
188 E 30 ?
189 C 37 ?
190 D 28 ?
191 C 30 ?
192 E 21 ?
193 C 56 ?
194 D 64 ?
195 D 12 ?
196 D 57 ?
197 A 18 ?
198 D 24 ?
199 C 57 ?
200 **
Subscores
1) C ? I/4 = ____________ SS = ____________
2) C ? I/4 = ____________ SS = ____________
3) C ? I/4 = ____________ SS = ____________
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
67
Score Conversions and Percents 
Below* for GRE Biology Test, 
Form GR0624 Only
 *Percent scoring below the scaled score is based on the performance of 
12,405 examinees who took the BIOLOGY Test between July 1, 2004, and 
June 30, 2007. This percent below information was used for score reports 
during the 2008-09 testing year.
 
SUBSCORES
Raw Scores Scaled
Score
Raw Scores Scaled
ScoreSub 1 Sub 2 Sub 3 Sub 1 Sub 2 Sub 3
63-67 60-67 99 27 27 32 64
62 59 98 26 26 31 63
61 58 97 25 25 30 62
60 57 96 24 24 28-29 61
59 56 65 95 23  27 60
58 55 64 94
57 54 63 93 22 23 26 59
56 53 62 92 21 22 25 58
55 52 61 91 20 21 24 57
54 51 60 90 19 20 23 56
18 19 22 55
53 50 59 89 17 18 21 54
52 49 58 88 16 17 20 53
50-51 57 87 15 16 19 52
49 48 56 86 14 15 18 51
48 47 54-55 85 13 14 16-17 50
47 46 53 84
46 45 52 83 12 13 15 49
45 44 51 82 11 12 14 48
44 43 50 81 10 13 47
43 42 49 80 8-9 11 12 46
7 10 11 45
42 41 48 79 6 9 10 44
41 40 47 78 5 8 9 43
40 39 46 77 4 7 8 42
39 38 45 76 3 6 7 41
38 37 44 75 2 5 6 40
37 43 74
36 36 41-42 73 1 4 5 39
35 35 40 72 0 3 3-4 38
34 34 39 71 2 2 37
33 33 38 70 1 1 36
0 0 35
32 32 37 69
31 31 36 68
30 30 35 67
29 29 34 66
28 28 33 65
TOTAL SCORE
Raw Score Scaled Score % Raw Score Scaled Score %
180-199 990 99 85-87 640 47
177-179 980 99 82-84 630 43
174-176 970 99 80-81 620 40
172-173 960 99 77-79 610 37
169-171 950 99 74-76 600 34
166-168 940 99
164-165 930 99 71-73 590 31
161-163 920 99 69-70 580 28
158-160 910 99 66-68 570 26
155-157 900 98 63-65 560 23
61-62 550 21
153-154 890 98 58-60 540 19
150-152 880 97 55-57 530 16
147-149 870 96 52-54 520 14
145-146 860 96 50-51 510 12
142-144 850 95 47-49 500 10
139-141 840 94
136-138 830 92 44-46 490 9
134-135 820 90 42-43 480 7
131-133 810 89 39-41 470 6
128-130 800 88 36-38 460 5
33-35 450 4
126-127 790 86 31-32 440 3
123-125 780 84 28-30 430 2
120-122 770 82 25-27 420 2
117-119 760 79 23-24 410 1
115-116 750 77 20-22 400 1
112-114 740 75
109-111 730 72 17-19 390 1
107-108 720 69 14-16 380 1
104-106 710 67 12-13 370 1
101-103 700 64 9-11 360 1
6-8 350 1
99-100 690 61 4-5 340 1
96-98 680 58 1-3 330 1
93-95 670 56 0 320 1
90-92 660 53
88-89 650 49
Score Conversions for 
GRE Biology Test Subscores
Form GR0624 Only
BIOLOGY TEST
PRACTICE BOOK
68
Evaluating Your
Performance
Now that you have scored your test, you may wish 
to compare your performance with the performance 
of others who took this test. Both the worksheet on 
page 66 and the tables on page 67 use performance 
data from GRE Biology Test examinees.
The data in the worksheet on page 66 are based 
on the performance of a sample of the examinees 
who took this test in December 2006. This sample 
was selected to represent the total population of 
GRE Biology Test examinees tested between July 2004
and June 2007. The numbers in the column labeled 
?P+? on the worksheet indicate the percentages 
of examinees in this sample who answered each 
question correctly. You may use these numbers as 
a guide for evaluating your performance on each 
test question.
The fi rst table on page 67 contains, for each 
scaled score, the percentage of examinees tested be-
tween July 2004 and June 2007 who received lower 
scores. Interpretive data based on the scores earned 
by examinees tested in this three-year period will be 
used by admissions offi cers in the 2008-09 testing 
year. These percentages appear in the score conver-
sion table in a column to the right of the scaled 
scores. For example, in the percentage column 
opposite the scaled score of 670 is the number 56. 
This means that 56 percent of the GRE Biology Test 
examinees tested between July 2004 and June 2007 
scored lower than 670. To compare yourself with 
this population, look at the percentage next to the 
scaled score you earned on the practice test.
Your three subscores show your relative strengths 
or weaknesses in the three subfi eld areas of the 
GRE Biology Test. The raw subscores are scaled in 
such a way that they are related to the total scores 
on the test. On the average, a person who has a 
comprehensive background in the fi eld can expect 
to have subscores equal to about one-tenth of his 
or her total score. Thus, if you have a total score of 
600, and your undergraduate program placed equal 
emphasis on the three areas of Biology represented 
by the subscores, you would expect to have a scaled 
subscore of about 60 in each area. If, however, your 
subscores differ by more than a few points, you may 
take this as an indication that your lower score 
shows weakness, and you may wish to concentrate 
your review efforts on topics in that area.
It is important to realize that the conditions under 
which you tested yourself were not exactly the 
same as those you will encounter at a test center. 
It is impossible to predict how different test-taking 
conditions will affect test performance, and this is 
only one factor that may account for differences 
between your practice test scores and your actual 
test scores. By comparing your performance on this 
practice test with the performance of other GRE 
Biology Test examinees, however, you will be able 
to determine your strengths and weaknesses and 
can then plan a program of study to prepare yourself 
for taking the GRE Biology Test under standard 
conditions.
En
te
r y
o
u
r 
la
st
 n
am
e,
 
fi r
st
 n
am
e 
in
iti
al
 (g
ive
n n
am
e),
 
an
d
m
id
dl
e 
in
iti
al
 if
 y
o
u
 h
av
e 
o
n
e
.
O
m
it 
sp
ac
es
, a
po
st
ro
ph
es
, J
r.,
 
II.
, e
tc
.
D
O
 N
OT
 U
SE
 IN
K
G
RA
DU
AT
E 
R
EC
O
RD
 E
XA
M
IN
AT
IO
NS
?
 
 
-
-
 
 
SU
BJ
EC
T 
TE
ST
SI
DE
 1
Item responses continued on reverse side.
SI
G
NA
TU
RE
:
CE
NT
ER
:
YO
UR
 N
AM
E:
M
A
IL
IN
G
 A
DD
RE
SS
:
(P
rin
t)
(P
rin
t)
La
st
 N
am
e 
(Fa
m
ily
 o
r S
ur
n
a
m
e
)   
    
    
    
 Fi
rst
 N
am
e (
Gi
ve
n
)   
    
    
    
M.
I.
 
P.
O.
 
Bo
x 
o
r 
St
re
et
 A
dd
re
ss
Ci
ty
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
St
at
e 
or
 P
ro
vi
nc
e
Co
un
try
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zi
p 
or
 P
o
st
al
 C
od
e
Ci
ty
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
St
at
e 
or
 P
ro
vi
nc
e
Co
un
try
 
 
 
Ce
nt
er
 N
um
be
r  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
R
oo
m
 N
um
be
r
2.
3.
 
DA
TE
 O
F 
BI
RT
H
M
on
th
D
ay
Ye
a
r
Ja
n.
Fe
b.
M
ar
.
Ap
ril
M
ay
Ju
ne
Ju
ly
Au
g.
Se
pt
.
O
ct
.
N
ov
.
D
ec
.
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
4.
 
SO
CI
AL
 S
EC
UR
IT
Y
N
UM
BE
R
(U
.
S.
A.
 
o
n
ly)
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0
 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1
 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2
 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3
 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4
 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5
 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6
 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7
 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8
 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9
6.
 
TI
TL
E 
CO
DE
(on
 ba
ck
 c
ov
e
r 
o
f
yo
u
r 
te
st
 b
oo
k)
5.
 
R
EG
IS
TR
AT
IO
N
N
UM
BE
R
(fr
om
 yo
u
r 
a
dm
iss
io
n 
tic
ke
t)
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0
 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1
 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2
 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3
 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4
 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5
 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6
 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7
 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8
 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9
 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0
 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1
 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2
 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3
 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4
 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5
 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6
 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 
 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8
 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9
SH
AD
ED
 A
RE
A 
FO
R 
ET
S 
US
E 
O
NL
Y
8.
 
TE
ST
 B
O
O
K 
SE
RI
AL
 N
UM
BE
R
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(nu
m
be
r i
n 
up
pe
r r
ig
ht
 c
or
n
e
r 
o
f f
ro
nt
 c
ov
e
r 
o
f
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
yo
u
r 
te
st
 b
oo
k)
FO
RM
 C
O
DE
 
(on
 ba
ck
 c
ov
e
r 
o
f
yo
u
r 
te
st
 b
oo
k)
7.
 
TE
ST
 N
A
M
E 
(on
 ba
ck
 c
ov
e
r 
o
f
 
 
 
 
 
yo
u
r 
te
st
 b
oo
k)
74
28
62
Co
py
rig
ht
 ?
 2
00
7 
by
 
Ed
uc
at
io
na
l T
e
st
in
g 
Se
rv
ic
e,
 
Pr
in
ce
to
n,
 N
J 
08
54
1
 
Al
l r
ig
ht
s 
re
se
rv
e
d.
 
Pr
in
te
d 
in
 U
.
S.
A.
Q3
11
7-
06
,0
7/
1 
   
 0
01
01
-0
29
54
 ? 
TF
77
E7
0 
   
 M
H/
wa
n
07
19
0
1 
   
   
   
2 
   
   
   
3 
   
   
   
4
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A
 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B 
B
 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C 
C
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
D
 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E 
E
 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
G
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
H
 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J
 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K 
K
 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L 
L
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
M
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
N
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
O
 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P
 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
R
 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S 
S
 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U 
U
 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V 
V
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
W
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X
 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y
 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z
o q
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
La
st
 N
am
e 
on
ly 
(Fa
m
ily
 N
am
e 
or
 S
ur
n
a
m
e
) -
 Fi
rst
 15
 Le
tte
rs
1.
 
N
A
M
E
Fi
rs
t
N
am
e
In
iti
al
M
id
dl
e
In
iti
al
BE SURE EACH MARK IS DARK AND COMPLETELY FILLS THE INTENDED SPACE AS ILLUSTRATED HERE:          .          
YOU MAY FIND MORE RESPONSE SPACES THAN YOU NEED. IF SO, PLEASE LEAVE THEM BLANK.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
Us
e 
on
ly 
a 
pe
nc
il w
ith
 s
of
t, 
bl
ac
k 
le
ad
 (N
o. 
2 
or
 H
B)
 to
 co
mp
let
e t
his
 an
sw
e
r 
sh
ee
t.
Be
 s
ur
e 
to
 fi 
ll 
in
 c
om
pl
et
el
y 
th
e 
sp
ac
e 
th
at
 c
or
re
sp
on
ds
 to
 y
o
u
r 
a
n
sw
e
r 
ch
oi
ce
.
Co
m
pl
et
el
y 
er
a
se
 a
ny
 e
rro
rs
 o
r s
tra
y 
m
a
rk
s.
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
?
02
95
4_
Bo
ok
.in
db
1
7/
9/
07
11
:5
1:
29
AM
69
A.
 
Fi
ll 
in
 b
ot
h 
ov
a
ls
 h
er
e 
. . 
.
B.
 
si
gn
 yo
u
r 
fu
ll n
am
e 
he
re
:
To
 
ca
n
ce
l y
o
u
r 
sc
o
re
s 
fro
m
 th
is
 te
st
 a
dm
in
is
tra
tio
n,
 
yo
u
 m
u
st
:
If 
yo
u
 w
a
n
t t
o 
ca
nc
el
 y
o
u
r 
sc
o
re
s 
fro
m
 th
is 
te
st
 a
dm
in
ist
ra
tio
n,
 c
om
pl
et
e 
A 
an
d 
B 
be
lo
w
.
 
Yo
u
 w
ill 
no
t r
ec
ei
ve
 s
co
re
s 
fo
r 
th
is
 te
st
. N
o
re
co
rd
 o
f t
hi
s 
te
st
 o
r t
he
 c
an
ce
lla
tio
n 
wi
ll b
e 
se
nt
 to
 th
e 
re
cip
ie
nt
s 
yo
u
 in
di
ca
te
d,
 a
nd
 th
er
e 
wi
ll b
e 
no
 s
co
re
s 
fo
r 
th
is
 te
st
 
o
n
 y
o
u
r 
G
RE
 fi 
le
.
IF
 Y
O
U 
DO
 N
OT
 W
A
N
T 
TH
IS
 A
NS
W
ER
 S
HE
ET
 TO
 
B
E 
SC
O
RE
D
SIGNATURE: DATE:
Month     Day     Year
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Please write the following statement below, DO NOT PRINT.
?I certify that I am the person whose name appears on this answer sheet. I also
agree not to disclose the contents of the test I am taking today to anyone.?
Sign and date where indicated.
TR TW TFS TCS
FOR ETS USE ONLY
1R
3R
1W
3W
5R 5W
1FS
3FS
5FS
1CS
3CS
5CS
2R
4R
6R
2W
4W
6W
2FS
4FS
6FS
2CS
4CS
6CS
SIDE 2
SUBJECT TEST
COMPLETE THE
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT,
THEN TURN ANSWER SHEET
OVER TO SIDE 1.
BE SURE EACH MARK IS DARK AND COMPLETELY FILLS THE INTENDED SPACE AS ILLUSTRATED HERE:       .          
YOU MAY FIND MORE RESPONSE SPACES THAN YOU NEED. IF SO, PLEASE LEAVE THEM BLANK.
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
 A B C D E
02
95
4_
Bo
ok
.in
db
2
7/
9/
07
11
:5
1:
31
AM
70
62272-007629 ? U127M2 ? 7699 ? Printed in U.S.A.72270-007629 ? WEBPDF68
746067
